1.		 On July 15, in a writing signed by both parties,
Fixtures, Inc., agreed to deliver to Druggist
on August 15 five storage cabinets from
inventory for a total price of $5,000 to be
paid on delivery. On August 1, the two parties
orally agreed to postpone the delivery date to
August 20. On August 20, Fixtures tendered
the cabinets to Druggist, who refused to accept
or pay for them on the ground that they were
not tendered on August 15, even though they
otherwise met the contract specifications. 
Assuming that all appropriate defenses are 
seasonably raised, will Fixtures succeed in an 
action against Druggist for breach of contract? 
(A) Yes, because neither the July 15 
agreement nor the August 1 agreement 
was required to be in writing. 
(B) Yes, because the August 1 agreement 
operated as a waiver of the August 15 
delivery term. 
(C) No, because there was no consideration 
to support the August 1 agreement. 
(D) No, because the parol evidence rule will 
prevent proof of the August 1 
agreement. 
2. Beth wanted to make some money, so she
decided to sell cocaine. She asked Albert, 
who was reputed to have access to illegal
drugs, to supply her with cocaine so she could
resell it. Albert agreed and sold Beth a bag of
white powder. Beth then repackaged the white
powder into smaller containers and sold one
to Carol, an undercover police officer, who
promptly arrested Beth. Beth immediately
confessed and said that Albert was her 
supplier. Upon examination, the white powder
was found not to be cocaine or any type of
illegal substance. 
If Albert knew the white powder was not 
cocaine but Beth believed it was, which of the 
following is correct? 
(A) Both Albert and Beth are guilty of 
attempting to sell cocaine. 
(B) Neither Albert nor Beth is guilty of 
attempting to sell cocaine. 
(C) Albert is guilty of attempting to sell 
cocaine, but Beth is not. 
(D) Albert is not guilty of attempting to sell 
cocaine, but Beth is. 

3.		 Neighbor, who lived next door to Homeowner, 
went into Homeowner’s garage without 
permission and borrowed Homeowner’s 
chain saw. Neighbor used the saw to clear 
broken branches from the trees on Neighbor’s 
own property. After he had finished, 
Neighbor noticed several broken branches 
on Homeowner’s trees that were in danger of 
falling on Homeowner’s roof. While Neighbor 
was cutting Homeowner’s branches, the saw 
broke. 
In a suit for conversion by Homeowner against 
Neighbor, will Homeowner recover? 
(A)		 Yes, for the actual damage to the saw. 
(B)		 Yes, for the value of the saw before 
Neighbor borrowed it. 
(C)		 No, because when the saw broke 
Neighbor was using it to benefit 
Homeowner. 
(D)		 No, because Neighbor did not intend to 
keep the saw. 
4.		 Homeowner hired Arsonist to set fire to 
Homeowner’s house so that Homeowner 
could collect the insurance proceeds from the 
fire. After pouring gasoline around the house, 
Arsonist lit the fire with his cigarette lighter 
and then put the lighter in his pocket. As 
Arsonist was standing back admiring his work, 
the lighter exploded in his pocket. Arsonist 
suffered severe burns to his leg. 
Arsonist brought an action against the
manufacturer of the lighter based on strict 
product liability. Under applicable law, the 
rules of pure comparative fault apply in such 
actions. 
Will Arsonist prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, if the lighter exploded because of a 
defect caused by a manufacturing error. 
(B)		 Yes, if Arsonist can establish that the 
lighter was the proximate cause of his 
injury.
(C)		 No, because the lighter was not being 
used for an intended or reasonably 
foreseeable purpose. 
(D)		 No, because Arsonist was injured in the 
course of committing a felony by the 
device used to perpetrate the felony. 

5.		 Susan owned Goldacre, a tract of land, in 
fee simple. By warranty deed, she conveyed 
Goldacre in fee simple to Ted for a recited 
consideration of “$10 and other valuable 
consideration.” The deed was promptly and 
properly recorded. One week later, Susan and 
Ted executed a written document that stated 
that the conveyance of Goldacre was for the 
purpose of establishing a trust for the benefit 
of Benton, a child of Susan’s. Ted expressly 
accepted the trust and signed the document 
with Susan. This written agreement was not 
authenticated to be eligible for recordation and 
there never was an attempt to record it. 
Ted entered into possession of Goldacre and 
distributed the net income from Goldacre to 
Benton at appropriate intervals. 
Five years later, Ted conveyed Goldacre in fee 
simple to Patricia by warranty deed. Patricia 
paid the fair market value of Goldacre, had no 
knowledge of the written agreement between 
Susan and Ted, and entered into possession of 
Goldacre. 
Benton made demand upon Patricia for
distribution of income at the next usual time 
Ted would have distributed. Patricia refused. 
Benton brought an appropriate action against 
Patricia for a decree requiring her to perform 
the trust Ted had theretofore recognized. 
In such action, judgment should be for 
(A)		 Benton, because a successor in title 
to the trustee takes title subject to the 
grantor’s trust. 
(B)		 Benton, because equitable interests are 
not subject to the recording act. 
(C)		 Patricia, because, as a bona fide 
purchaser, she took free of the trust 
encumbering Ted’s title. 
(D)		 Patricia, because no trust was ever 
created since Susan had no title at the 
time of the purported creation. 
6.		 In a federal investigation of Defendant for 
tax fraud, the grand jury seeks to obtain a 
letter written January 15 by Defendant to her 
attorney in which she stated: “Please prepare 
a deed giving my ranch to University but, 
in order to get around the tax law, I want it 
back-dated to December 15.” The attorney 
refuses to produce the letter on the ground of 
privilege. 
Production of the letter should be 
(A)		 prohibited, because the statement is 
protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
(B)		 prohibited, because the statement is 
protected by the client’s privilege against 
self-incrimination. 
(C)		 required, because the statement was in 
furtherance of crime or fraud. 
(D)		 required, because the attorney-client 
privilege belongs to the client and can be 
claimed only by her. 
7.		 After being fired from his job, Mel drank 
almost a quart of vodka and decided to ride 
the bus home. While on the bus, he saw a 
briefcase he mistakenly thought was his own, 
and began struggling with the passenger 
carrying the briefcase. Mel knocked the 
passenger to the floor, took the briefcase, 
and fled. Mel was arrested and charged with 
robbery. 
Mel should be 
(A)		 acquitted, because he used no threats and 
was intoxicated. 
(B)		 acquitted, because his mistake negated 
the required specific intent. 
(C)		 convicted, because his intoxication was 
voluntary.
(D)		 convicted, because mistake is no defense 
to robbery. 

8.		 A generally applicable state statute requires an 
autopsy by the county coroner in all cases of 
death that are not obviously of natural causes. 
The purpose of this law is to ensure the 
discovery and prosecution of all illegal activity 
resulting in death. In the 50 years since its 
enactment, the statute has been consistently 
enforced. 
Mr. and Mrs. Long are sincere practicing 
members of a religion that maintains it is 
essential for a deceased person’s body to be 
buried promptly and without any invasive 
procedures, including an autopsy. When 
the Longs’ son died of mysterious causes 
and an autopsy was scheduled, the Longs 
filed an action in state court challenging 
the constitutionality of the state statute, and 
seeking an injunction prohibiting the county 
coroner from performing an autopsy on their 
son’s body. In this action, the Longs claimed 
only that the application of this statute 
in the circumstances of their son’s death 
would violate their right to the free exercise 
of religion as guaranteed by the First and 
Fourteenth Amendments. Assume that no 
federal statutes are applicable. 
As applied to the Longs’ case, the court should 
rule that the state’s autopsy statute is 
(A)		 constitutional, because a dead individual 
is not a person protected by the due 
process clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment. 
(B)		 constitutional, because it is a generally 
applicable statute and is rationally related 
to a legitimate state purpose. 
(C)		 unconstitutional, because it is not 
necessary to vindicate a compelling state 
interest. 
(D)		 unconstitutional, because it is not 
substantially related to an important state 
interest. 
9.		 By the terms of a written contract signed 
by both parties on January 15, M.B. Ram, 
Inc., agreed to sell a specific ICB personal 
computer to Marilyn Materboard for $3,000, 
and Materboard agreed to pick up and pay 
for the computer at Ram’s store on February 
1. Materboard unjustifiably repudiated on 
February 1. Without notifying Materboard, 
Ram subsequently sold at private sale the same 
specific computer to Byte, who paid the same 
price ($3,000) in cash. The ICB is a popular 
product. Ram can buy from the manufacturer 
more units than it can sell at retail. 
If Ram sues Materboard for breach of contract, 
Ram will probably recover 
(A)		 nothing, because it received a price on 
resale equal to the contract price that 
Materboard had agreed to pay. 
(B)		 nothing, because Ram failed to give 
Materboard proper notice of Ram’s 
intention to resell. 
(C)		 Ram’s anticipated profit on the sale to 
Materboard plus incidental damages, if 
any, because Ram lost that sale. 
(D)		 $3,000 (the contract price), because 
Materboard intentionally breached the 
contract by repudiation. 
  

10.		 Anna owned Blackacre, which was improved 
with a dwelling. Beth owned Whiteacre, 
an adjoining unimproved lot suitable for 
constructing a dwelling. Beth executed and
delivered a deed granting to Anna an easement 
over the westerly 15 feet of Whiteacre for 
convenient ingress and egress to a public 
street, although Anna’s lot did abut another 
public street. Anna did not then record Beth’s 
deed. After Anna constructed and started using 
a driveway within the described 15-foot strip 
in a clearly visible manner, Beth borrowed 
$10,000 cash from Bank and gave Bank a 
mortgage on Whiteacre. The mortgage was 
promptly and properly recorded. Anna then 
recorded Beth’s deed granting the easement. 
Beth subsequently defaulted on her loan 
payments to Bank. 
The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: 
“No conveyance or mortgage of real property 
shall be good against subsequent purchasers 
for value and without notice unless the same 
be recorded according to law.” 
In an appropriate foreclosure action as to 
Whiteacre, brought against Anna and Beth, 
Bank seeks, among other things, to have 
Anna’s easement declared subordinate to 
Bank’s mortgage, so that the easement will be 
terminated by completion of the foreclosure. 
If Anna’s easement is NOT terminated, it will 
be because 
(A)		 the recording of the deed granting the 
easement prior to the foreclosure action 
protects Anna’s rights. 
(B)		 the easement provides access from 
Blackacre to a public street. 
(C)		 Anna’s easement is appurtenant to 
Blackacre and thus cannot be separated 
from Blackacre. 
(D)		 visible use of the easement by Anna put 
Bank on notice of the easement. 
11.		 A little more than five years ago, Len 
completed construction of a single-family 
home located on Homeacre, a lot that 
Len owned. Five years ago, Len and Tina 
entered into a valid five-year written lease 
of Homeacre that included the following 
language: “This house is rented as is, without 
certain necessary or useful items. The parties 
agree that Tina may acquire and install such 
items as she wishes at her expense, and that 
she may remove them if she wishes at the 
termination of this lease.” 
Tina decided that the house needed, and 
she paid cash to have installed, standardsized combination screen/storm windows, a 
freestanding refrigerator to fit a kitchen alcove 
built for that purpose, a built-in electric stove 
and oven to fit a kitchen counter opening left 
for that purpose, and carpeting to cover the 
plywood living room floor. 
Last month, by legal description of the land, 
Len conveyed Homeacre to Pete for $100,000. 
Pete knew of Tina’s soon-expiring tenancy, 
but did not examine the written lease. As the 
lease expiration date approached, Pete learned 
that Tina planned to vacate on schedule, and 
learned for the first time that Tina claimed and 
planned to remove all of the above-listed items 
that she had installed. 
Pete promptly brought an appropriate action to 
enjoin Tina from removing those items. 
The court should decide that Tina may remove 
(A)		 none of the items. 
(B)		 only the refrigerator. 
(C)		 all items except the carpet. 
(D)		 all of the items. 

12.		 The mineral alpha is added to bodies of fresh 
water to prevent the spread of certain
freshwater parasites. The presence of those 
parasites threatens the health of the organisms 
living in rivers and streams throughout 
the country and imperils the freshwater 
commercial fishing industry. Alpha is 
currently mined only in the state of Blue. 
In order to raise needed revenue, Congress 
recently enacted a statute providing for the 
imposition of a $100 tax on each ton of alpha 
mined in the United States. Because it will 
raise the cost of alpha, this tax is likely to 
reduce the amount of alpha added to
freshwater rivers and streams and, therefore, 
is likely to have an adverse effect on the 
interstate freshwater commercial fishing 
industry. The alpha producers in Blue have 
filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging this 
tax solely on constitutional grounds. 
Is this tax constitutional? 
(A)		 No, because only producers in Blue will 
pay the tax and, therefore, it is not
uniform among the states and denies 
alpha producers the equal protection of 
the laws. 
(B)		 No, because it is likely to have an 
adverse effect on the freshwater 
commercial fishing industry and 
Congress has a responsibility under the
clause to protect, foster, and advance 
such interstate industries. 
(C)		 Yes, because the tax is a necessary 
and proper means of exercising federal 
authority over the navigable waters of 
the United States. 
(D)		 Yes, because the power of Congress to 
impose taxes is plenary, this tax does 
not contain any provisions extraneous 
to tax needs or purposes, and it is not 
barred by any prohibitory language in the 
Constitution. 
13.		 Plaintiff sued Defendant for breach of a 
commercial contract in which Defendant 
had agreed to sell Plaintiff all of Plaintiff’s 
requirements for widgets. Plaintiff called 
Expert Witness to testify as to damages. 
Defendant seeks to show that Expert Witness 
had provided false testimony as a witness in 
his own divorce proceedings. 
This evidence should be 
(A)		 admitted only if elicited from Expert 
Witness on cross-examination. 
(B)		 admitted only if the false testimony is 
established by clear and convincing 
extrinsic evidence. 
(C)		 excluded, because it is impeachment on a 
collateral issue. 
(D)		 excluded, because it is improper 
character evidence. 
14.		 Karen was crossing Main Street at a 
crosswalk. John, who was on the sidewalk 
nearby, saw a speeding automobile heading in 
Karen’s direction. John ran into the street and 
pushed Karen out of the path of the car. Karen 
fell to the ground and broke her leg. 
In an action for battery brought by Karen 
against John, will Karen prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because John could have shouted a 
warning instead of pushing Karen out of 
the way. 
(B)		 Yes, if Karen was not actually in danger 
and John should have realized it. 
(C)		 No, because the driver of the car was 
responsible for Karen’s injury. 
(D)		 No, if John’s intent was to save Karen, 
not to harm her. 

15.		 Joe and Marty were coworkers. Joe admired 
Marty’s wristwatch and frequently said how 
much he wished he had one like it. Marty 
decided to give Joe the watch for his birthday 
the following week. 
On the weekend before Joe’s birthday, Joe and 
Marty attended a company picnic. Marty took 
his watch off and left it on a blanket when he 
went off to join in a touch football game. Joe 
strolled by, saw the watch on the blanket, and 
decided to steal it. He bent over and picked up 
the watch. Before he could pocket it, however, 
Marty returned. When he saw Joe holding the 
watch, he said, “Joe, I know how much you 
like that watch. I was planning to give it to 
you for your birthday. Go ahead and take it 
now.” Joe kept the watch. 
Joe has committed 
(A)		 larceny.
(B)		 attempted larceny. 
(C)		 embezzlement. 
(D)		 no crime. 
16.		 Olivia, owner in fee simple of Richacre, a 
large parcel of vacant land, executed a deed 
purporting to convey Richacre to her nephew, 
Grant. She told Grant, who was then 19, about 
the deed and said that she would give it to 
him when he reached 21 and had received his 
undergraduate college degree. Shortly
afterward Grant searched Olivia’s desk, found 
and removed the deed, and recorded it. 
A month later, Grant executed an instrument in 
the proper form of a warranty deed purporting 
to convey Richacre to his fiancée, Bonnie. He 
delivered the deed to Bonnie, pointing out that 
the deed recited that it was given in exchange 
for “$1 and other good and valuable
consideration,” and that to make it valid 
Bonnie must pay him $1. Bonnie, impressed 
and grateful, did so. Together, they went to 
the recording office and recorded the deed. 
Bonnie assumed Grant had owned Richacre, 
and knew nothing about Grant’s dealing with 
Olivia. Neither Olivia’s deed to Grant nor 
Grant’s deed to Bonnie said anything about 
any conditions. 
The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: 
“No conveyance or mortgage of real property 
shall be good against subsequent purchasers 
for value and without notice unless the same 
be recorded according to law.” 
Two years passed. Grant turned 21, then 
graduated from college. At the graduation 
party, Olivia was chatting with Bonnie and for 
the first time learned the foregoing facts. 
The age of majority in the jurisdiction is 18 
years. 
Olivia brought an appropriate action against 
Bonnie to quiet title to Richacre. 
The court will decide for 
(A)		 Olivia, because Grant’s deed to Bonnie 
before Grant satisfied Olivia’s conditions 
was void, as Bonnie had paid only 
nominal consideration. 
(B)		 Olivia, because her deed to Grant was 
not delivered. 
(C)		 Bonnie, because Grant has satisfied 
Olivia’s oral conditions. 
(D)		 Bonnie, because the deed to her was 
recorded. 

17.		 Perry suffered a serious injury while 
participating in an impromptu basketball game 
at a public park. The injury occurred when 
Perry and Dever, on opposing teams, each 
tried to obtain possession of the ball when it 
rebounded from the backboard after a missed 
shot at the basket. During that encounter, Perry 
was struck and injured by Dever’s elbow. 
Perry now seeks compensation from Dever. 
At the trial, evidence was introduced tending 
to prove that the game had been rough 
from the beginning, that elbows and knees 
had frequently been used to discourage 
interference by opposing players, and that 
Perry had been one of those making liberal use 
of such tactics. 
In this action, will Perry prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, if Dever intended to strike Perry 
with his elbow. 
(B)		 Yes, if Dever intended to cause a 
harmful or offensive contact with Perry. 
(C)		 No, because Perry impliedly consented 
to rough play. 
(D)		 No, unless Dever intentionally used force 
that exceeded the players’ consent. 
18.		 Water District is an independent municipal 
water-supply district incorporated under the 
applicable laws of the state of Green. The 
district was created solely to supply water 
to an entirely new community in a recently 
developed area of Green. That new community 
is racially, ethnically, and socioeconomically 
diverse, and the community has never engaged 
in any discrimination against members of 
minority groups. 
The five-member, elected governing board 
of the newly created Water District contains 
two persons who are members of racial 
minority groups. At its first meeting, the 
governing board of Water District adopted 
a rule unqualifiedly setting aside 25% of all 
positions on the staff of the District and 25% 
of all contracts to be awarded by the District 
to members of racial minority groups. The 
purpose of the rule was “to help redress the 
historical discrimination against these groups 
in this country and to help them achieve 
economic parity with other groups in our 
society.” Assume that no federal statute 
applies. 
A suit by appropriate parties challenges the 
constitutionality of these set-asides. 
In this suit, the most appropriate ruling on 
the basis of applicable United States Supreme 
Court precedent would be that the set-asides 
are 
(A)		 unconstitutional, because they would 
deny other potential employees or 
potential contractors the equal protection 
of the laws. 
(B)		 unconstitutional, because they would 
impermissibly impair the right to 
contract of other potential employees or 
potential contractors. 
(C)		 constitutional, because they would assure 
members of racial minority groups the 
equal protection of the laws. 
(D)		 constitutional, because the function 
and activities of Water District are 
of a proprietary nature rather than a 
governmental nature and, therefore, are 
not subject to the usual requirements of 
the Fourteenth Amendment. 

Questions 19-20  
 
In a single writing, Painter contracted with Farmer 
to paint three identical barns on her rural estate for 
$2,000 each. The contract provided for Farmer’s 
payment of $6,000 upon Painter’s completion of 
the work on all three barns. Painter did not ask for 
any payment when the first barn was completely 
painted, but she demanded $4,000 after painting the 
second barn. 
19.		 Is Farmer obligated to make the $4,000 
payment? 
(A)		 No, because Farmer has no duty under 
the contract to pay anything to Painter 
until all three barns have been painted. 
(B)		 No, because Painter waived her right, if 
any, to payment on a per-barn basis by 
failing to demand $2,000 upon
completion of the first barn. 
(C)		 Yes, because the contract is divisible. 
(D)		 Yes, because Painter has substantially 
performed the entire contract. 
20.		 For this question only, assume that Farmer 
rightfully refused Painter’s demand for 
payment. 
If Painter immediately terminates the contract 
without painting the third barn, what is Painter 
entitled to recover from Farmer? 
(A)		 Nothing, because payment was expressly 
conditioned on completion of all three 
barns. 
(B)		 Painter’s expenditures plus anticipated 
“profit” in painting the first two barns, 
up to a maximum recovery of $4,000. 
(C)		 The reasonable value of Painter’s 
services in painting the two barns, less 
Farmer’s damages, if any, for Painter’s 
failure to paint the third barn. 
(D)		 The amount that the combined value of 
the two painted barns has been increased 
by Painter’s work. 

21.		 The police in City notified local gas station 
attendants that a woman, known as Robber, 
recently had committed armed robberies at 
five City gas stations. The police said that 
Robber was approximately 75 years old, had 
white hair, and drove a vintage, cream-colored 
Ford Thunderbird. Attendants were advised to 
call police if they saw her, but not to attempt 
to apprehend her. Armed robbery is a felony 
under state law. 
Traveler was passing through City on a crosscountry journey. Traveler was a 75-yearold woman who had white hair and drove a 
vintage, cream-colored Ford Thunderbird. 
When Traveler drove into Owner’s gas station, 
Owner thought Traveler must be the robber 
wanted by the police. After checking the oil 
at Traveler’s request, Owner falsely informed 
Traveler that she had a broken fan belt, that 
her car could not be driven without a new belt, 
that it would take him about an hour to replace 
it, and that she should stay in his office for 
consultation about the repair. Traveler was 
greatly annoyed that her journey was delayed, 
but she stayed in Owner’s office while 
she waited for her car. Owner telephoned 
the police and, within the hour, the police 
came and questioned Traveler. The police 
immediately determined that Traveler was not 
Robber, and Traveler resumed her journey 
without further delay. 
In Traveler’s action for false imprisonment 
against Owner, Traveler will 
(A)		 not prevail, if Owner reasonably believed 
that Traveler was Robber. 
(B)		 not prevail, because Traveler suffered no 
physical or mental harm. 
(C)		 prevail, if Traveler reasonably believed 
she could not leave Owner’s premises. 
(D)		 prevail, because Owner lied to Traveler 
about the condition of her car. 
22.		 In which of the following situations would 
Defendant’s mistake most likely constitute a 
defense to the crime charged? 
(A)		 A local ordinance forbids the sale 
of alcoholic beverages to persons 
under 18 years of age. Relying on 
false identification, Defendant sells 
champagne to a 16-year-old high school 
student. Defendant is charged with 
illegal sale of alcoholic beverages. 
(B)		 Mistaking Defendant for a narcotics 
suspect, an undercover police officer 
attempts to arrest him. Defendant, 
unaware that the person who has grabbed 
him is an officer, hits him and knocks 
him unconscious. Defendant is charged 
with assault. 
(C)		 Defendant, aged 23, has sexual 
intercourse with a 15-year-old prostitute 
who tells Defendant that she is 18. 
Defendant is charged with the felony of 
statutory rape under a statute that makes 
sexual relations with a child under 16 a 
felony.
(D)		 Relying on erroneous advice from his 
attorney that, if his wife has abandoned 
him for more than a year, he is free 
to marry, Defendant remarries and is 
subsequently charged with bigamy. 

23. Powell, who was an asbestos insulation 
installer from 1955 to 1965, contracted 
asbestosis, a serious lung disorder, as a result 
of inhaling airborne asbestos particles on the 
job. The asbestos was manufactured and sold 
to Powell’s employer by the Acme Asbestos 
Company. Because neither Acme nor anyone 
else discovered the risk to asbestos installers 
until 1966, Acme did not provide any 
warnings of the risks to installers until after 
that date. 
Powell brought an action against Acme based 
on strict liability in tort for failure to warn. 
The case is to be tried before a jury. The 
jurisdiction has not adopted a comparative 
fault rule in strict liability cases.
In this action, an issue that is relevant to the 
case and is a question for the court to decide 
as a matter of law, rather than for the jury to 
decide as a question of fact, is whether
(A)		 a satisfactory, safer, alternative insulation 
material exists under today’s technology. 
(B)		 the defendant should be held to the 
standard of a prudent manufacturer who 
knew of the risks, regardless of whether 
the risks were reasonably discoverable 
before 1966. 
(C)		 the defendant should reasonably have 
known of the risks of asbestos insulation 
materials before 1966, even though no 
one else had discovered the risks. 
(D)		 the asbestos insulation materials to which 
the plaintiff was exposed were inherently 
dangerous.  
24. PullCo sued Davidson, its former vice 
president, for return of $230,000 that had 
been embezzled during the previous two 
years. Called by PullCo as an adverse 
witness, Davidson testified that his annual 
salary had been $75,000, and he denied the 
embezzlement. PullCo calls banker Witt 
to show that, during the two-year period, 
Davidson had deposited $250,000 in his bank 
account.  
Witt’s testimony is 
(A)		 admissible as circumstantial evidence of 
Davidson’s guilt. 
(B)		 admissible to impeach Davidson. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because its prejudicial 
effect substantially outweighs its 
probative value. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because the deposits could 
have come from legitimate sources. 

25.		 Alex and Betty, who were cousins, acquired 
title in fee simple to Blackacre, as equal 
tenants in common, by inheritance from 
Angela, their aunt. During the last 15 years of 
her lifetime, Angela allowed Alex to occupy 
an apartment in the house on Blackacre, 
to rent the other apartment in the house to 
various tenants, and to retain the rent. Alex 
made no payments to Angela; and since 
Angela’s death 7 years ago, he has made no 
payments to Betty. For those 22 years, Alex 
has paid the real estate taxes on Blackacre, 
kept the building on Blackacre insured, and 
maintained the building. At all times, Betty 
has lived in a distant city and has never 
had anything to do with Angela, Alex, or 
Blackacre. 
Recently, Betty needed money for the 
operation of her business and demanded 
that Alex join her in selling Blackacre. Alex 
refused. 
The period of time to acquire title by adverse 
possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years. 
There is no other applicable statute. 
Betty brought an appropriate action against 
Alex for partition. Alex asserted all available 
defenses and counterclaims. 
In that action, the court should 
(A)		 deny partition and find that title has 
vested in Alex by adverse possession. 
(B)		 deny partition, confirm the tenancy in 
common, but require an accounting 
to determine if either Betty or Alex 
is indebted to the other on account of 
the rental payment, taxes, insurance 
premiums, and maintenance costs. 
(C)		 grant partition and require, as an 
adjustment, an accounting to determine 
if either Betty or Alex is indebted to the 
other on account of the rental payments, 
taxes, insurance premiums, and 
maintenance costs. 
(D)		 grant partition to Betty and Alex as equal 
owners, but without an accounting. 
26.		 Plaintiff sued Defendant for illegal 
discrimination, claiming that Defendant fired 
him because of his race. At trial, Plaintiff 
called Witness, expecting him to testify that 
Defendant had admitted the racial motivation. 
Instead, Witness testified that Defendant 
said that he had fired Plaintiff because of 
his frequent absenteeism. While Witness is 
still on the stand, Plaintiff offers a properly 
authenticated secret tape recording he had 
made at a meeting with Witness in which 
Witness related Defendant’s admissions of 
racial motivation. 
The tape recording is 
(A)		 admissible as evidence of Defendant’s 
racial motivation and to impeach 
Witness’s testimony. 
(B)		 admissible only to impeach Witness’s 
testimony.
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because a secret recording 
is an invasion of Witness’s right of 
privacy under the U.S. Constitution. 

Questions 27-28  
 
On December 15, Lawyer received from Stationer, 
Inc., a retailer of office supplies, an offer consisting 
of its catalog and a signed letter stating, “We 
will supply you with as many of the items in the 
enclosed catalog as you order during the next 
calendar year. We assure you that this offer and the 
prices in the catalog will remain firm throughout the 
coming year.” 
27.		 For this question only, assume that no other 
correspondence passed between Stationer and 
Lawyer until the following April 15 (four 
months later), when Stationer received from 
Lawyer a faxed order for “100 reams of your 
paper, catalog item #101.” 
Did Lawyer’s April 15 fax constitute an 
effective acceptance of Stationer’s offer at the 
prices specified in the catalog? 
(A)		 Yes, because Stationer had not revoked 
its offer before April 15. 
(B)		 Yes, because a one-year option contract 
had been created by Stationer’s offer. 
(C)		 No, because under applicable law the 
irrevocability of Stationer’s offer was 
limited to a period of three months. 
(D)		 No, because Lawyer did not accept 
Stationer’s offer within a reasonable 
time. 
28.		 For this question only, assume that on January 
15, having at that time received no reply 
from Lawyer, Stationer notified Lawyer that 
effective February 1, it was increasing the 
prices of certain specified items in its catalog. 
Is the price increase effective with respect to 
catalog orders Stationer receives from Lawyer 
during the month of February? 
(A)		 No, because Stationer’s original offer, 
including the price term, became 
irrevocable under the doctrine of 
promissory estoppel. 
(B)		 No, because Stationer is a merchant 
with respect to office supplies; and its 
original offer, including the price term, 
was irrevocable throughout the month of 
February.
(C)		 Yes, because Stationer received no 
consideration to support its assurance 
that it would not increase prices. 
(D)		 Yes, because the period for which 
Stationer gave assurance that it would 
not raise prices was longer than three 
months. 

29.		 State X enacted a statute “to regulate 
administratively the conduct of motor vehicle
junkyard businesses in order to deter motor 
vehicle theft and trafficking in stolen motor 
vehicles or parts thereof.” The statute requires 
a junkyard owner or operator “to permit 
representatives of the Department of Motor 
Vehicles or of any law enforcement agency 
upon request during normal business hours to 
take physical inventory of motor vehicles and 
parts thereof on the premises.” The statute also 
states that a failure to comply with any of its 
requirements constitutes a felony. 
Police officers assigned to Magnolia City’s 
Automobile Crimes Unit periodically visited 
all motor vehicle junkyards in town to make 
the inspections permitted by the statute. Janet 
owned such a business in Magnolia City. One 
summer day, the officers asked to inspect the 
vehicles on her lot. Janet said, “Do I have a 
choice?” The officers told her she did not. 
The officers conducted their inspection and 
discovered three stolen automobiles. 
Janet is charged with receiving stolen property. 
Janet moves pretrial to suppress the evidence 
relating to the three automobiles on the ground 
that the inspection was unconstitutional. 
Her motion should be 
(A)		 sustained, because the statute grants 
unbridled discretion to law enforcement 
officers to make warrantless searches. 
(B)		 sustained, because the stated regulatory 
purpose of the statute is a pretext to 
circumvent the warrant requirement in 
conducting criminal investigations. 
(C)		 denied, because the statute deals 
reasonably with a highly regulated 
industry.
(D)		 denied, because administrative searches 
of commercial establishments do not 
require warrants. 
30.		 Current national statistics show a dramatic 
increase in the number of elementary and 
secondary school students bringing controlled 
substances (drugs) to school for personal 
use or distribution to others. In response, 
Congress enacted a statute requiring each state 
legislature to enact a state law that makes it a 
state crime for any person to possess, use, or 
distribute, within 1,000 feet of any elementary 
or secondary school, any controlled substance 
that has previously been transported in 
interstate commerce and that is not possessed, 
used, or distributed pursuant to a proper 
physician’s prescription. 
This federal statute is 
(A)		 unconstitutional, because Congress has 
no authority to require a state legislature 
to enact any specified legislation. 
(B)		 unconstitutional, because the possession, 
use, or distribution, in close proximity 
to a school, of a controlled substance 
that has previously been transported 
in interstate commerce does not have 
a sufficiently close nexus to such 
commerce to justify its regulation by 
Congress.
(C)		 constitutional, because it contains a 
jurisdictional provision that will ensure, 
on a case-by-case basis, that any 
particular controlled substance subject 
to the terms of this statute will, in fact, 
affect interstate commerce. 
(D)		 constitutional, because Congress 
possesses broad authority under both the 
general welfare clause and the commerce 
clause to regulate any activities affecting 
education that also have, in inseverable 
aggregates, a substantial effect on 
interstate commerce. 

31.		 Janet had a season ticket for the Scorpions’ 
hockey games at Central Arena (Section B, 
Row 12, Seat 16). During the intermission 
between the first and second periods of a 
game between the Scorpions and the visiting 
Hornets, Janet solicited signatures for a 
petition urging that the coach of the Scorpions 
be fired. 
Central Arena and the Scorpions are owned 
by ABC, Inc., a privately owned entity. As 
evidenced by many prominently displayed 
signs, ABC prohibits all solicitations anywhere 
within Central Arena at any time and in any 
manner. ABC notified Janet to cease her 
solicitation of signatures. 
Janet continued to seek signatures on her 
petition during the Scorpions’ next three home 
games at Central Arena. Each time, ABC 
notified Janet to cease such solicitation. Janet 
announced her intention to seek signatures on 
her petition again during the Scorpions’ next 
home game at Central Arena. ABC wrote a 
letter informing Janet that her season ticket 
was canceled and tendering a refund for the 
unused portion. Janet refused the tender and 
brought an appropriate action to establish the 
right to attend all home games. 
In this action, the court will decide for 
(A)		 ABC, because it has a right and 
obligation to control activities on realty it 
owns and has invited the public to visit. 
(B)		 ABC, because Janet’s ticket to hockey 
games created only a license. 
(C)		 Janet, because, having paid value for the 
ticket, her right to be present cannot be 
revoked. 
(D)		 Janet, because she was not committing a 
nuisance by her activities. 
32.		 Company designed and built a processing 
plant for the manufacture of an explosive 
chemical. Engineer was retained by Company 
to design a filter system for the processing 
plant. She prepared an application for a permit 
to build the plant’s filter system and submitted 
it to the state’s Department of Environmental 
Protection (DEP). As required by DEP 
regulations, Engineer submitted a blueprint 
to the DEP with the application for permit. 
The blueprint showed the entire facility and 
was signed and sealed by her as a licensed 
professional engineer. 
After the project was completed, a portion 
of the processing plant exploded, injuring 
Plaintiff. During discovery in an action by 
Plaintiff against Engineer, it was established 
that the explosion was caused by a design 
defect in the processing plant that was 
unrelated to the filter system designed by 
Engineer. 
In that action, will Plaintiff prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, if Engineer signed, sealed, and 
submitted a blueprint that showed the 
design defect. 
(B)		 Yes, because all of the plant’s designers 
are jointly and severally liable for the 
defect. 
(C)		 No, because Engineer owed no duty to 
Plaintiff to prevent the particular risk of 
harm. 
(D)		 No, if Engineer was an independent 
contractor. 

33.		 Several years ago, Bart purchased Goldacre, 
financing a large part of the purchase price 
by a loan from Mort that was secured by a 
mortgage. Bart made the installment payments 
on the mortgage regularly until last year. Then 
Bart persuaded Pam to buy Goldacre, subject 
to the mortgage to Mort. They expressly 
agreed that Pam would not assume and agree 
to pay Bart’s debt to Mort. Bart’s mortgage to 
Mort contained a due-on-sale clause stating, 
“If Mortgagor transfers his/her interest 
without the written consent of Mortgagee first 
obtained, then at Mortgagee’s option the entire 
principal balance of the debt secured by this 
Mortgage shall become immediately due and 
payable.” However, without seeking Mort’s 
consent, Bart conveyed Goldacre to Pam, the 
deed stating in pertinent part “ . . . , subject 
to a mortgage to Mort [giving details and 
recording data].” 
Pam took possession of Goldacre and made 
several mortgage payments, which Mort 
accepted. Now, however, neither Pam nor Bart 
has made the last three mortgage payments. 
Mort has brought an appropriate action 
against Pam for the amount of the delinquent 
payments. 
In this action, judgment should be for 
(A)		 Pam, because she did not assume and 
agree to pay Bart’s mortgage debt. 
(B)		 Pam, because she is not in privity of 
estate with Mort. 
(C)		 Mort, because Bart’s deed to Pam 
violated the due-on-sale clause. 
(D)		 Mort, because Pam is in privity of estate 
with Mort. 
34.		 Congress recently enacted a statute imposing 
severe criminal penalties on anyone engaged 
in trading in the stock market who, in 
the course of that trading, takes “unfair 
advantage” of other investors who are also 
trading in the stock market. The statute 
does not define the term “unfair advantage.” 
There have been no prosecutions under this 
new statute. The members of an association 
of law school professors that is dedicated 
to increasing the clarity of the language 
used in criminal statutes believe that this 
statute is unconstitutionally vague. Neither 
the association nor any of its members is 
currently engaged in, or intends in the future 
to engage in, trading in the stock market. The 
association and its members bring suit against 
the Attorney General of the United States in 
a federal district court, seeking an injunction 
against the enforcement of this statute on the 
ground that it is unconstitutional. 
May the federal court determine the merits of 
this suit? 
(A)		 Yes, because the suit involves a dispute 
over the constitutionality of a federal 
statute. 
(B)		 Yes, because the plaintiffs seek real 
relief of a conclusive nature—an 
injunction against enforcement of this 
statute. 
(C)		 No, because the plaintiffs do not have an 
interest in the invalidation of this statute 
that is adequate to ensure that the suit 
presents an Article III controversy. 
(D)		 No, because a suit for an injunction 
against enforcement of a criminal statute 
may not be brought in federal court at 
any time prior to a bona fide effort to 
enforce that statute. 

35.		 Rachel, an antique dealer and a skilled 
calligrapher, crafted a letter on very old 
paper. She included details that would lead 
knowledgeable readers to believe the letter had 
been written by Thomas Jefferson to a friend. 
Rachel, who had a facsimile of Jefferson’s 
autograph, made the signature and other 
writing on the letter resemble Jefferson’s. She 
knew that the letter would attract the attention 
of local collectors. When it did and she was 
contacted about selling it, she said that it had 
come into her hands from a foreign collector 
who wished anonymity, and that she could 
make no promises about its authenticity. As 
she had hoped, a collector paid her $5,000 
for the letter. Later the collector discovered 
the letter was not authentic, and handwriting 
analysis established that Rachel had written 
the letter. 
In a jurisdiction that follows the common-law 
definition of forgery, Rachel has 
(A)		 committed both forgery and false 
pretenses.
(B)		 committed forgery, because she created 
a false document with the intent 
to defraud, but has not committed 
false pretenses, since she made no 
representation as to the authenticity of 
the document. 
(C)		 not committed forgery, because the 
document had no apparent legal 
significance, but has committed false 
pretenses, since she misrepresented the 
source of the document. 
(D)		 not committed forgery, because the 
document had no apparent legal 
significance, and has not committed 
false pretenses, since she made no 
representation as to authenticity of the 
document. 
36.		 Mom rushed her eight-year-old daughter, 
Child, to the emergency room at Hospital after 
Child fell off her bicycle and hit her head on a 
sharp rock. The wound caused by the fall was 
extensive and bloody. 
Mom was permitted to remain in the 
treatment room, and held Child’s hand while 
the emergency room physician cleaned and 
sutured the wound. During the procedure, 
Mom said that she was feeling faint and stood 
up to leave the room. While leaving the room, 
Mom fainted and, in falling, struck her head 
on a metal fixture that protruded from the 
emergency room wall. She sustained a serious 
injury as a consequence. 
If Mom sues Hospital to recover damages for 
her injury, will she prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because Mom was a public invitee 
of Hospital’s. 
(B)		 Yes, unless the fixture was an obvious, 
commonly used, and essential part of 
Hospital’s equipment. 
(C)		 No, unless Hospital’s personnel failed to 
take reasonable steps to anticipate and 
prevent Mom’s injury. 
(D)		 No, because Hospital’s personnel owed 
Mom no affirmative duty of care. 

Questions 37-39  
 
Buyer, Inc., contracted in writing with Shareholder, 
who owned all of XYZ Corporation’s outstanding 
stock, to purchase all of her stock at a specified 
price per share. At the time this contract was 
executed, Buyer’s contracting officer said to 
Shareholder, “Of course, our commitment to 
buy is conditioned on our obtaining approval 
of the contract from Conglomerate, Ltd., our 
parent company.” Shareholder replied, “Fine. No 
problem.” 
37.		 For this question only, assume that 
Conglomerate orally approved the contract, 
but that Shareholder changed her mind and 
refused to consummate the sale on two 
grounds: (1) when the agreement was made 
there was no consideration for her promise to 
sell; and (2) Conglomerate’s approval of the 
contract was invalid. 
If Buyer sues Shareholder for breach of
contract, is Buyer likely to prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because Buyer’s promise to buy, 
bargained for and made in exchange 
for Shareholder’s promise to sell, was 
good consideration even though it was 
expressly conditioned on an event that 
was not certain to occur. 
(B)		 Yes, because any possible lack of 
consideration for Shareholder’s promise 
to sell was expressly waived by 
Shareholder when the agreement was 
made. 
(C)		 No, because mutuality of obligation 
between the parties was lacking when the 
agreement was made. 
(D)		 No, because the condition of 
Conglomerate’s approval of the contract 
was an essential part of the agreed 
exchange and was not in a signed 
writing. 
38.		 For this question only, assume the following 
facts. Shareholder subsequently refused to 
consummate the sale on the ground that Buyer 
had neglected to request Conglomerate’s 
approval of the contract, which was true. 
Conglomerate’s chief executive officer, 
however, is prepared to testify that 
Conglomerate would have routinely approved 
the contract if requested to do so. Buyer can 
also prove that it has made a substantial sale 
of other assets to finance the stock purchase, 
although it admittedly had not anticipated any 
such necessity when it entered into the stock 
purchase agreement. 
If Buyer sues Shareholder for breach of 
contract, is Buyer likely to prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because the condition of 
Conglomerate’s approval of the contract, 
being designed to protect only Buyer 
and Conglomerate, can be and has been 
waived by those entities. 
(B)		 Yes, because Buyer detrimentally relied 
on Shareholder’s commitment by selling 
off other assets to finance the stock 
purchase.
(C)		 No, because the express condition 
of Conglomerate’s approval had not 
occurred prior to the lawsuit. 
(D)		 No, because obtaining Conglomerate’s 
approval of the contract was an event 
within Buyer’s control and Buyer’s 
failure to obtain it was itself a material 
breach of contract. 

39.		 For this question only, assume the following 
facts. Shareholder is willing and ready to 
consummate the sale of her stock to Buyer, 
but the latter refuses to perform on the ground 
(which is true) that Conglomerate has firmly 
refused to approve the contract. 
If Shareholder sues Buyer for breach of 
contract and seeks to exclude any evidence of 
the oral condition requiring Conglomerate’s 
approval, the court will probably 
(A)		 admit the evidence as proof of a 
collateral agreement. 
(B)		 admit the evidence as proof of a 
condition to the existence of an 
enforceable obligation, and therefore not 
within the scope of the parol evidence 
rule. 
(C)		 exclude the evidence on the basis 
of a finding that the parties’ written 
agreement was a complete integration of 
their contract. 
(D)		 exclude the evidence as contradicting the 
terms of the parties’ written agreement, 
whether or not the writing was a 
complete integration of the contract. 
40.		 At Dove’s trial for theft, Mr. Wong, called 
by the prosecutor, testified to the following: 
1) that from his apartment window, he saw 
thieves across the street break the window of 
a jewelry store, take jewelry, and leave in a 
car; 2) that Mrs. Wong telephoned the police 
and relayed to them the license number of 
the thieves’ car as Mr. Wong looked out the 
window with binoculars and read it to her; 
3) that he has no present memory of the 
number, but that immediately afterward he 
listened to a playback of the police tape 
recording giving the license number (which 
belongs to Dove’s car) and verified that she 
had relayed the number accurately. 
Playing the tape recording for the jury would be 
(A)		 proper, because it is recorded 
recollection.
	
(B)		 proper, because it is a public record or 
report.
(C)		 improper, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
(D)		 improper, because Mrs. Wong lacked 
firsthand knowledge of the license 
number. 

41.		 For ten years, Vacationer and Neighbor have 
owned summer vacation homes on adjoining 
lots. A stream flows through both lots. As 
a result of a childhood swimming accident, 
Vacationer is afraid of water and has never 
gone close to the stream. 
Neighbor built a dam on her property that has 
completely stopped the flow of the stream to 
Vacationer’s property. 
In a suit by Vacationer against Neighbor, will 
Vacationer prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, if the damming unreasonably 
interferes with the use and enjoyment of 
Vacationer’s property. 
(B)		 Yes, if Neighbor intended to affect 
Vacationer’s property. 
(C)		 No, because Vacationer made no use of 
the stream. 
(D)		 No, if the dam was built in conformity 
with all applicable laws. 
42.		 Corp, a corporation, owned Blackacre in fee 
simple, as the real estate records showed. 
Corp entered into a valid written contract to 
convey Blackacre to Barbara, an individual. 
At closing, Barbara paid the price in full and 
received an instrument in the proper form of 
a deed, signed by duly authorized corporate 
officers on behalf of Corp, purporting to 
convey Blackacre to Barbara. Barbara did not 
then record the deed or take possession of 
Blackacre. 
Next, George (who had no knowledge of the 
contract or the deed) obtained a substantial 
money judgment against Corp. Then, Barbara 
recorded the deed from Corp. Thereafter, 
George properly filed the judgment against 
Corp. 
A statute of the jurisdiction provides: “Any 
judgment properly filed shall, for ten years 
from filing, be a lien on the real property then 
owned or subsequently acquired by any person 
against whom the judgment is rendered.” 
Afterward, Barbara entered into a valid written 
contract to convey Blackacre to Polly. Polly 
objected to Barbara’s title and refused to close. 
The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: 
“Unless the same be recorded according 
to law, no conveyance or mortgage of real 
property shall be good against subsequent 
purchasers for value and without notice.” 
Barbara brought an appropriate action to 
require Polly to complete the purchase 
contract. 
The court should decide for 
(A)		 Polly, because George’s judgment was 
obtained before Barbara recorded the 
deed from Corp. 
(B)		 Polly, because even though Corp’s 
deed to Barbara prevented George’s 
judgment from being a lien on Blackacre, 
George’s filed judgment poses a threat of 
litigation.
(C)		 Barbara, because Barbara recorded her 
deed before George filed his judgment. 
(D)		 Barbara, because Barbara received the 
deed from Corp before George filed his 
judgment. 

43.		 City enacted an ordinance banning from its 
public sidewalks all machines dispensing 
publications consisting wholly of commercial 
advertisements. The ordinance was enacted 
because of a concern about the adverse 
aesthetic effects of litter from publications 
distributed on the public sidewalks and streets. 
However, City continued to allow machines 
dispensing other types of publications on 
the public sidewalks. As a result of the City 
ordinance, 30 of the 300 sidewalk machines 
that were dispensing publications in City were 
removed. 
Is this City ordinance constitutional? 
(A)		 Yes, because regulations of commercial 
speech are subject only to the 
requirement that they be rationally 
related to a legitimate state goal, and that 
requirement is satisfied here. 
(B)		 Yes, because City has a compelling 
interest in protecting the aesthetics of its 
sidewalks and streets, and such a ban is 
necessary to vindicate this interest. 
(C)		 No, because it does not constitute the 
least restrictive means with which to 
protect the aesthetics of City’s sidewalks 
and streets. 
(D)		 No, because there is not a reasonable fit 
between the legitimate interest of City in 
preserving the aesthetics of its sidewalks 
and streets and the means it chose to 
advance that interest. 
44.		 Plaintiff’s estate sued Defendant Stores 
claiming that Guard, one of Defendant’s 
security personnel, wrongfully shot and 
killed Plaintiff when Plaintiff fled after 
being accused of shoplifting. Guard was 
convicted of manslaughter for killing Plaintiff. 
At his criminal trial Guard, who was no 
longer working for Defendant, testified that 
Defendant’s security director had instructed 
him to stop shoplifters “at all costs.” Because 
Guard’s criminal conviction is on appeal, he 
refuses to testify at the civil trial. Plaintiff’s 
estate then offers an authenticated transcript 
of Guard’s criminal trial testimony concerning 
the instructions of Defendant’s security 
director. 
This evidence is 
(A)		 admissible as a statement of an agent of 
a party-opponent. 
(B)		 admissible, because the instruction from 
the security director is not hearsay. 
(C)		 admissible, although hearsay, as former 
testimony.
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
  
 

45.		 Mrs. Pence sued Duarte for shooting her 
husband from ambush. Mrs. Pence offers to 
testify that, the day before her husband was 
killed, he described to her a chance meeting 
with Duarte on the street in which Duarte said, 
“I’m going to blow your head off one of these 
days.” 
The witness’s testimony concerning her 
husband’s statement is 
(A)		 admissible, to show Duarte’s state of 
mind. 
(B)		 admissible, because Duarte’s statement is 
that of a party-opponent. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is improper 
evidence of a prior bad act. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
46.		 The state of Brunswick enacted a statute 
providing for the closure of the official 
state records of arrest and prosecution 
of all persons acquitted of a crime by a 
court or against whom criminal charges 
were filed and subsequently dropped or 
dismissed. The purpose of this statute is to 
protect these persons from further publicity 
or embarrassment relating to those state 
proceedings. However, this statute does not 
prohibit the publication of such information 
that is in the possession of private persons. 
A prominent businessman in Neosho City 
in Brunswick was arrested and charged with 
rape. Prior to trial, the prosecutor announced 
that new information indicated that the charges 
should be dropped. He then dropped the 
charges without further explanation, and the 
records relating thereto were closed to the 
public pursuant to the Brunswick statute. 
The Neosho City Times conducted an 
investigation to determine why the 
businessman was not prosecuted, but was 
refused access to the closed official state 
records. In an effort to determine whether 
the law enforcement agencies involved were 
properly doing their duty, the Times filed suit 
against appropriate state officials to force 
opening of the records and to invalidate the 
statute on constitutional grounds. 
Which of the following would be most helpful 
to the state in defending the constitutionality 
of this statute? 
(A)		 The fact that the statute treats in 
an identical manner the arrest and 
prosecution records of all persons who 
have been acquitted of a crime by a 
court or against whom criminal charges 
were filed and subsequently dropped or 
dismissed. 
(B)		 The argument that the rights of the press 
are no greater than those of citizens 
generally.
(C)		 The fact that the statute only prohibits 
public access to these official state 
records and does not prohibit the 
publication of information they contain 
that is in the possession of private 
persons.
(D)		 The argument that the state may seal 
official records owned by the state on 
any basis its legislature chooses. 

47.		 Nora, executive director of an equal housing 
opportunity organization, was the leader 
of a sit-in at the offices of a real estate 
management company. The protest was 
designed to call attention to the company’s 
racially discriminatory rental practices. 
When police demanded that Nora desist 
from trespassing on the company’s property, 
she refused and was arrested. In Nora’s trial 
for trespass, the prosecution peremptorily 
excused all nonwhites from the jury, arguing 
to the court that even though Nora was white, 
minority groups would automatically support 
Nora because of her fight against racism in 
housing accommodations. 
If Nora is convicted of trespass by an all-white 
jury and appeals, claiming a violation of her 
constitutional rights, the court should 
(A)		 affirm the conviction, because Nora was 
not a member of the class discriminated 
against.
(B)		 affirm the conviction, because 
peremptory challenge of the nonwhites 
did not deny Nora the right to an 
impartial jury. 
(C)		 reverse the conviction, because racially 
based peremptory challenges violate 
equal protection of the law. 
(D)		 reverse the conviction, because Nora was 
denied the right to have her case heard 
by a fair cross section of the community. 
48.		 Arthur’s estate plan included a revocable trust 
established 35 years ago with ABC Bank as 
trustee. The principal asset of the trust has 
always been Blackacre, a very profitable, 
debt-free office building. The trust instrument 
instructs the trustee to pay the net income to 
Arthur for life, and, after the death of Arthur, 
to pay the net income to his wife, Alice, for 
life; and, after her death, “to distribute the 
net trust estate as she may appoint by will, 
or in default of her exercise of this power 
of appointment, to my son (her stepson), 
Charles.” 
Arthur died 30 years ago survived by Alice 
and Charles. Arthur had not revoked or 
amended the trust agreement. A few years 
after Arthur’s death, Alice remarried; she 
then had a child, Marie; was widowed for a 
second time; and, last year, died. Her will 
contained only one dispositive provision: “I 
give my entire estate to my daughter, Marie, 
and I intentionally make no provision for my 
stepson, Charles.” Marie is now 22 years old. 
The common-law Rule Against Perpetuities 
is unmodified by statute in the jurisdiction. 
There are no other applicable statutes. 
Charles brought an appropriate action against 
Marie to determine who was entitled to the net 
trust estate and thus to Blackacre. 
If the court rules for Marie, it will be because 
(A)		 Alice’s life estate and general power 
of appointment merge into complete 
ownership in Alice. 
(B)		 the Rule Against Perpetuities does not 
apply to general powers of appointment. 
(C)		 the jurisdiction deems “entire estate” to 
be a reference to Blackacre or to Alice’s 
general power of appointment. 
(D)		 Alice intended that Charles should not 
benefit by reason of her death. 

Questions 49-50 
Tenant rented a commercial building from Landlord, 
and operated a business in it. The building’s large 
front window was smashed by vandals six months 
before expiration of the Tenant-Landlord lease. 
Tenant, who was obligated thereunder to effect and 
pay for repairs in such cases, promptly contracted 
with Glazier to replace the window for $2,000, due 
30 days after satisfactory completion of the work. 
Landlord was then unaware of the Tenant-Glazier 
contract. Glazier was aware that the building was 
under lease, but dealt entirely with Tenant. 
Sixty days after Glazier’s satisfactory completion of 
the window replacement, and prior to the expiration 
of Tenant’s lease, Tenant, then insolvent, ceased 
doing business and vacated the building. In so 
doing, Tenant forfeited under the lease provisions 
its right to the return of a $2,000 security deposit 
with Landlord. The deposit had been required, 
however, for the express purpose (as stated in 
the lease) of covering any damage to the leased 
property except ordinary wear and tear. The only 
such damage occurring during Tenant’s occupancy 
was the smashed window. Glazier’s $2,000 bill for 
the window replacement is wholly unpaid. 
49.		 Assuming that Glazier has no remedy quasi in 
rem under the relevant state mechanic’s lien 
statute, which of the following would provide 
Glazier’s best chance of an effective remedy 
in personam against Landlord? 
(A)		 An action in quasi contract for 
the reasonable value of a benefit 
unofficiously and non-gratuitously 
conferred on Landlord. 
(B)		 An action based on promissory estoppel. 
(C)		 An action based on an implied-in-fact 
contract. 
(D)		 An action as third-party intended 
beneficiary of the Tenant-Landlord lease. 
50.		 For this question only, assume the following 
facts. Upon vacating the building, Tenant 
mailed a $1,000 check to Glazier bearing on 
its face the following conspicuous notation: 
“This check is in full and final satisfaction 
of your $2,000 window replacement bill.” 
Without noticing this notation, Glazier cashed 
the check and now sues Tenant for the $1,000 
difference. 
If Tenant’s only defense is accord and
satisfaction, is Tenant likely to prevail? 
(A)		 No, because Glazier failed to notice 
Tenant’s notation on the check. 
(B)		 No, because the amount owed by Tenant 
to Glazier was liquidated and undisputed. 
(C)		 Yes, because by cashing the check 
Glazier impliedly agreed to accept the 
$1,000 as full payment of its claim. 
(D)		 Yes, because Glazier failed to write a 
reservation-of-rights notation on the 
check before cashing it. 

51.		 Defendant is on trial for robbing a bank in 
State A. She testified that she was in State B 
at the time of the robbery. Defendant calls her 
friend, Witness, to testify that two days before 
the robbery Defendant told him that she was 
going to spend the next three days in State B. 
Witness’s testimony is 
(A)		 admissible, because the statement falls 
within the present sense impression 
exception to the hearsay rule. 
(B)		 admissible, because a statement of plans 
falls within the hearsay exception for 
then-existing state of mind. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is offered to 
establish an alibi by Defendant’s own 
statement. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
52.		 The legislature of State X is debating reforms 
in the law governing insanity. Two reforms 
have been proposed. Proposal A would 
eliminate the insanity defense altogether. 
Proposal B would retain the defense but 
place on the defendant the burden of proving 
insanity by a preponderance of the evidence. 
Opponents of the reforms argue that the 
proposals would be unconstitutional under 
the due process clause of the United States 
Constitution. 
Which of the proposed reforms would be 
unconstitutional? 
(A)		 Both proposals. 
(B)		 Neither proposal. 
(C)		 Proposal A only. 
(D)		 Proposal B only. 
53.		 A federal statute appropriated $7 million for a 
nationwide essay contest on “How the United 
States Can Best Stop Drug Abuse.” The 
statute indicates that its purpose is to generate 
new, practical ideas for eliminating drug abuse 
in the United States. 
Contest rules set forth in the statute provide 
that winning essays are to be selected 
on the basis of the “originality, aptness, 
and feasibility of their ideas.” The statute 
expressly authorizes a first prize of $1 million, 
50 second prizes of $100,000 each, and 100 
third prizes of $10,000 each. It also states 
that judges for the contest are to be appointed 
by the President of the United States with 
the advice and consent of the Senate, and 
that all residents of the United States who 
are not employees of the federal government 
are eligible to enter and win the contest. 
A provision of the statute authorizes any 
taxpayer of the United States to challenge its 
constitutionality. 
In a suit by a federal taxpayer to challenge 
the constitutionality of the statute, the court 
should 
(A)		 refuse to decide its merits, because 
the suit involves policy questions that 
are inherently political and, therefore, 
nonjusticiable.
(B)		 hold the statute unconstitutional, 
because it does not provide sufficient 
guidelines for awarding the prize money 
appropriated by Congress and, therefore, 
unconstitutionally delegates legislative 
power to the contest judges. 
(C)		 hold the statute unconstitutional, because 
its relationship to legitimate purposes of 
the spending power of Congress is too 
tenuous and conjectural to satisfy the 
necessary and proper clause of Article I. 
(D)		 hold the statute constitutional, because 
it is reasonably related to the general 
welfare, it states concrete objectives, 
and it provides adequate criteria for 
conducting the essay contest and 
awarding the prize money. 

54.		 Fran, who was driving at an excessive speed, 
applied her brakes to stop at a traffic light. 
Due to damp, fallen leaves, her car skidded 
and came to a halt perpendicular to the 
roadway. Sid, who was also driving at an 
excessive speed and was immediately behind 
Fran, saw Fran’s car perpendicular to the 
roadway. Although Sid had sufficient distance 
to come to a slow, controlled stop, he decided 
not to slow down but, rather, to swerve to the 
left in an effort to go around Fran’s car. Due 
to oncoming traffic, the space was insufficient 
and Sid’s car collided with Fran’s car, severely 
injuring Fran. 
Fran filed a personal injury action against 
Sid in a jurisdiction in which contributory 
negligence is a bar to recovery. 
Will Fran prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, if the jury finds that Sid was more 
than 50% at fault. 
(B)		 Yes, if the jury finds that Sid had the last 
clear chance. 
(C)		 No, if the jury finds that Fran’s conduct 
was in any way a legal cause of the 
accident. 
(D)		 No, if the jury finds that, in speeding, 
Fran assumed the risk. 
55.		 Sal owned five adjoining rectangular lots, 
numbered 1 through 5 inclusive, all fronting 
on Main Street. All of the lots are in a zone 
limited to one- and two-family residences 
under the zoning ordinance. Two years ago, 
Sal conveyed Lots 1, 3, and 5. None of the 
three deeds contained any restrictions. Each of 
the new owners built a one-family residence. 
One year ago, Sal conveyed Lot 2 to Peter. 
The deed provided that each of Peter and Sal, 
their respective heirs and assigns, would use 
Lots 2 and 4 respectively only for one-family 
residential purposes. The deed was promptly 
and properly recorded. Peter built a one-family 
residence on Lot 2. 
Last month, Sal conveyed Lot 4 to Betty. The 
deed contained no restrictions. The deed from 
Sal to Peter was in the title report examined 
by Betty’s lawyer. Betty obtained a building 
permit and commenced construction of a twofamily residence on Lot 4. 
Peter, joined by the owners of Lots 1, 3, 
and 5, brought an appropriate action against 
Betty to enjoin the proposed use of Lot 4, 
or, alternatively, damages caused by Betty’s 
breach of covenant. 
Which is the most appropriate comment 
concerning the outcome of this action? 
(A)		 All plaintiffs should be awarded their 
requested judgment for injunction 
because there was a common 
development scheme, but award of 
damages should be denied to all. 
(B)		 Peter should be awarded appropriate 
remedy, but recovery by the other 
plaintiffs is doubtful. 
(C)		 Injunction should be denied, but 
damages should be awarded to all 
plaintiffs, measured by diminution of 
market value, if any, suffered as a result 
of the proximity of Betty’s two-family 
residence. 
(D)		 All plaintiffs should be denied any 
recovery or relief because the zoning 
preempts any private scheme of 
covenants. 

56.		 Kelly County, in the state of Green, is located 
adjacent to the border of the state of Red. 
The communities located in Kelly County 
are principally suburbs of Scarletville, a large 
city located in Red, and therefore there is a 
large volume of traffic between that city and 
Kelly County. While most of that traffic is 
by private passenger automobiles, some of it 
is by taxicabs and other kinds of commercial 
vehicles. 
An ordinance of Kelly County, the stated 
purpose of which is to reduce traffic 
congestion, provides that only taxicabs 
registered in Kelly County may pick up or 
discharge passengers in the county. The 
ordinance also provides that only residents 
of Kelly County may register taxicabs in that 
county. 
Which of the following is the proper result in 
a suit brought by Scarletville taxicab owners 
challenging the constitutionality of this Kelly 
County ordinance? 
(A)		 Judgment for Scarletville taxicab owners, 
because the fact that private passenger 
automobiles contribute more to the 
traffic congestion problem in Kelly 
County than do taxicabs indicates that 
the ordinance is not a reasonable means 
by which to solve that problem. 
(B)		 Judgment for Scarletville taxicab owners, 
because the ordinance unduly burdens 
interstate commerce by insulating Kelly 
County taxicab owners from out-ofstate competition without adequate 
justification.
(C)		 Judgment for Kelly County, because the 
ordinance forbids taxicabs registered 
in other counties of Green as well as 
in states other than Green to operate in 
Kelly County and, therefore, it does not 
discriminate against interstate commerce. 
(D)		 Judgment for Kelly County, because 
Scarletville taxicab owners do not 
constitute a suspect class and the 
ordinance is reasonably related to the 
legitimate governmental purpose of 
reducing traffic congestion. 
57.		 Paul sued Donna for breach of contract. Paul’s 
position was that Joan, whom he understood to 
be Donna’s agent, said: “On behalf of Donna, 
I accept your offer.” Donna asserted that Joan 
had no actual or apparent authority to accept 
the offer on Donna’s behalf. 
Paul’s testimony concerning Joan’s statement is 
(A)		 admissible, provided the court first finds 
by a preponderance of the evidence that 
Joan had actual or apparent authority to 
act for Donna. 
(B)		 admissible, upon or subject to 
introduction of evidence sufficient to 
support a finding by the jury that Joan 
had actual or apparent authority to act 
for Donna. 
(C)		 inadmissible, if Joan does not testify and 
her absence is not excused. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 

58.		 A city ordinance requires a taxicab operator’s 
license to operate a taxicab in King City. The 
ordinance states that the sole criteria for the 
issuance of such a license are driving ability 
and knowledge of the geography of King City. 
An applicant is tested by the city for these 
qualifications with a detailed questionnaire, 
written and oral examinations, and a practical 
behind-the-wheel demonstration. 
The ordinance does not limit the number of 
licenses that may be issued. It does, however, 
allow any citizen to file an objection to the 
issuance of a particular license, but only on the 
ground that an applicant does not possess the 
required qualifications. City licensing officials 
are also authorized by the ordinance to 
determine, in their discretion, whether to hold 
an evidentiary hearing on an objection before 
issuing a license. 
Sandy applies for a taxicab operator’s license 
and is found to be fully qualified after 
completing the usual licensing process. Her 
name is then posted as a prospective licensee, 
subject only to the objection process. John, 
a licensed taxicab driver, files an objection 
to the issuance of such a license to Sandy 
solely on the ground that the grant of a license 
to Sandy would impair the value of John’s 
existing license. John demands a hearing 
before a license is issued to Sandy so that he 
may have an opportunity to prove his claim. 
City licensing officials refuse to hold such 
a hearing, and they issue a license to Sandy. 
John petitions for review of this action by 
city officials in an appropriate court, alleging 
that the Constitution requires city licensing 
officials to grant his request for a hearing 
before issuing a license to Sandy. 
In this case, the court should rule for 
(A)		 John, because the due process clause 
of the Fourteenth Amendment requires 
all persons whose property may be 
adversely affected by governmental 
action to be given an opportunity for a 
hearing before such action occurs. 
(B)		 John, because the determination of 
whether to hold a hearing may not 
constitutionally be left to the discretion 
of the same officials whose action is 
being challenged. 
(C)		 city officials, because John had the 
benefit of the licensing ordinance and, 
therefore, may not now question actions 
taken under it. 
(D)		 city officials, because the licensing 
ordinance does not give John any 
property interest in being free of 
competition from additional licensees. 
59.		 Homer lived on the second floor of a small 
convenience store/gas station that he owned. 
One night he refused to sell Augie a sixpack of beer after hours, saying he could not 
violate the state laws. Augie became enraged 
and deliberately drove his car into one of the 
gasoline pumps, severing it from its base. 
There was an ensuing explosion causing a ball 
of fire to go from the underground gasoline 
tank into the building. As a result, the building 
burned to the ground and Homer was killed. 
In a common-law jurisdiction, if Augie is 
charged with murder and arson, he should be 
(A)		 convicted of both offenses. 
(B)		 convicted of involuntary manslaughter 
and acquitted of arson. 
(C)		 convicted of arson and involuntary 
manslaughter.
(D)		 acquitted of both offenses. 

	
60.		 Bye Bye telegraphed Vendor on June 1, “At 
what price will you sell 100 of your QTModel garbage-disposal units for delivery 
around June 10?” Thereafter, the following 
communications were exchanged: 
1.		 Telegram from Vendor received by Bye 
Bye on June 2: “You’re in luck. We have 
only 100 QT’s, all on clearance at 50% 
off usual wholesale of $120 per unit, for 
delivery at our shipping platform on June 
12.” 
2.		 Letter from Bye Bye received in U.S. 
mail by Vendor on June 5: “I accept. 
Would prefer to pay in full 30 days after 
invoice.” 
3.		 Telegram from Vendor received by Bye 
Bye on June 6: “You must pick up at our 
platform and pay C.O.D.” 
4.		 Letter from Bye Bye received in U.S. 
mail by Vendor on June 9: “I don’t deal 
with people who can’t accommodate our 
simple requests.” 
5.		 Telegram from Bye Bye received by 
Vendor on June 10, after Vendor had 
sold and delivered all 100 of the QT’s 
to another buyer earlier that day: “Okay. 
I’m over a barrel and will pick up the 
goods on your terms June 12.” 
Bye Bye now sues Vendor for breach of 
contract. 
Which of the following arguments will best 
serve Vendor’s defense? 
(A)		 Vendor’s telegram received on June 2 
was merely a price quotation, not an 
offer. 
(B)		 Bye Bye’s letter received on June 5 was 
not an acceptance because it varied the 
terms of Vendor’s initial telegram. 
(C)		 Bye Bye’s use of the mails in response 
to Vendor’s initial telegram was an 
ineffective method of acceptance. 
(D)		 Bye Bye’s letter received on June 9 was 
an unequivocal refusal to perform that 
excused Vendor even if the parties had 
previously formed a contract. 
61.		 At a party, Diane and Victor agreed to play a 
game they called “spin the barrel.” Victor took 
an unloaded revolver, placed one bullet in the 
barrel, and spun the barrel. Victor then pointed 
the gun at Diane’s head and pulled the trigger 
once. The gun did not fire. Diane then took 
the gun, pointed it at Victor, spun the barrel, 
and pulled the trigger once. The gun fired, and 
Victor fell over dead. 
A statute in the jurisdiction defines murder 
in the first degree as an intentional and 
premeditated killing or one occurring during 
the commission of a common-law felony, 
and murder in the second degree as all other 
murder at common law. Manslaughter is 
defined as a killing in the heat of passion upon 
an adequate legal provocation or a killing 
caused by gross negligence. 
The most serious crime for which Diane can 
properly be convicted is 
(A)		 murder in the first degree, because the 
killing was intentional and premeditated 
and, in any event, occurred during 
commission of the felony of assault with 
a deadly weapon. 
(B)		 murder in the second degree, because 
Diane’s act posed a great threat of 
serious bodily harm. 
(C)		 manslaughter, because Diane’s act was 
grossly negligent and reckless. 
(D)		 no crime, because Victor and Diane 
voluntarily agreed to play a game and 
each assumed the risk of death. 

62.		 Abel owned Blackacre in fee simple. Three 
years ago, Abel and Betty agreed to a monthto-month tenancy with Betty paying Abel rent 
each month. After six months of Betty’s
occupancy, Abel suggested to Betty that she 
could buy Blackacre for a monthly payment 
of no more than her rent. Abel and Betty 
orally agreed that Betty would pay $25,000 
in cash, the annual real estate taxes, the 
annual fire insurance premiums, and the 
costs of maintaining Blackacre, plus the 
monthly mortgage payments that Abel owed 
on Blackacre. They further orally agreed that 
within six years Betty could pay whatever 
mortgage balances were then due and Abel 
would give her a warranty deed to the 
property. Betty’s average monthly payments 
did turn out to be about the same as her 
monthly rent. 
Betty fully complied with all of the obligations 
she had undertaken. She made some structural 
modifications to Blackacre. Blackacre is now 
worth 50% more than it was when Abel and 
Betty made their oral agreement. Betty made 
her financing arrangements and was ready to 
complete the purchase of Blackacre, but Abel 
refused to close. Betty brought an appropriate 
action for specific performance against Abel to 
enforce the agreement. 
The court should rule for 
(A)		 Abel, because the agreements were oral 
and violated the statute of frauds. 
(B)		 Abel, subject to the return of the 
$25,000, because the arrangement was 
still a tenancy. 
(C)		 Betty, because the doctrine of part 
performance applies. 
(D)		 Betty, because the statute of frauds 
does not apply to oral purchase and 
sale agreements between landlords and 
tenants in possession. 
63.		 A statute of State X permits a person’s name 
to appear on the general election ballot as a 
candidate for statewide public office if the 
person pays a $100 filing fee and provides 
proof from the State Elections Board that 
he or she was nominated in the immediately 
preceding primary election by one of the 
state’s two major political parties. It also 
permits the name of an independent candidate 
or a candidate of a smaller party to appear on 
the general election ballot if that person pays 
a filing fee of $1,000, and submits petitions 
signed by at least 3% of the voters who 
actually cast ballots for the office of governor 
in the last State X election. State X maintains 
that these filing requirements are necessary 
to limit the size of the election ballot, to 
eliminate frivolous candidacies, and to help 
finance the high cost of elections. 
Historically, very few of State X’s voters 
who are members of racial minority groups 
have been members of either of the two major 
political parties. Recently, a new political 
party has been formed by some of these 
voters. 
Which of the following constitutional 
provisions would be most helpful to the new 
political party as a basis for attacking the 
constitutionality of this statute of State X? 
(A)		 The First Amendment. 
(B)		 The Thirteenth Amendment. 
(C)		 The Fourteenth Amendment. 
(D)		 The Fifteenth Amendment. 

64.		 Defendant is on trial for the murder of his 
father. Defendant’s defense is that he shot 
his father accidentally. The prosecutor calls 
Witness, a police officer, to testify that on two 
occasions in the year prior to this incident, he 
had been called to Defendant’s home because 
of complaints of loud arguments between 
Defendant and his father, and had found it 
necessary to stop Defendant from beating his 
father. 
The evidence is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because it is improper 
character evidence. 
(B)		 inadmissible, because Witness lacks 
firsthand knowledge of who started the 
quarrels.
(C)		 admissible to show that Defendant killed 
his father intentionally. 
(D)		 admissible to show that Defendant is a 
violent person. 
65.		 Alex and Brenda owned in fee simple 
Greenacre as tenants in common, each owning 
an undivided one-half interest. Alex and 
Brenda joined in mortgaging Greenacre to 
Marge by a properly recorded mortgage that 
contained a general warranty clause. Alex 
became disenchanted with land-owning and 
notified Brenda that he would no longer 
contribute to the payment of installments due 
Marge. After the mortgage was in default and 
Marge made demand for payment of the entire 
amount of principal and interest due, Brenda 
tendered to Marge, and Marge deposited, a 
check for one-half of the amount due Marge. 
Brenda then demanded a release of Brenda’s 
undivided one-half interest. Marge refused 
to release any interest in Greenacre. Brenda 
promptly brought an action against Marge to 
quiet title to an undivided one-half interest in 
Greenacre. 
In such action, Brenda should 
(A)		 lose, because Marge’s title had been 
warranted by an express provision of the 
mortgage.
(B)		 lose, because there was no redemption 
from the mortgage. 
(C)		 win, because Brenda is entitled to 
marshalling.
(D)		 win, because the cotenancy of the 
mortgagors was in common and not 
joint. 
Questions 66-68  
 
The police had, over time, accumulated reliable 
information that Jason operated a large cocainedistribution network, that he and his accomplices 
often resorted to violence, and that they kept a small 
arsenal of weapons in his home. 
One day, the police received reliable information 
that a large brown suitcase with leather straps 
containing a supply of cocaine had been delivered 
to Jason’s home and that it would be moved to a 
distribution point the next morning. The police 
obtained a valid search warrant to search for and 
seize the brown suitcase and the cocaine and went 
to Jason’s house. 
The police knocked on Jason’s door and called 
out, “Police. Open up. We have a search warrant.” 
After a few seconds with no response, the police 
forced the door open and entered. Hearing noises 
in the basement, the police ran down there and 
found Jason with a large brown suitcase with 
leather straps. They seized the suitcase and put 
handcuffs on Jason. A search of his person revealed 
a switchblade knife and a .45-caliber pistol. Jason 
cursed the police and said, “You never would have 
caught me with the stuff if it hadn’t been for that 
lousy snitch Harvey!” 
The police then fanned out through the house, 
looking in every room and closet. They found no 
one else, but one officer found an Uzi automatic 
weapon in a box on a closet shelf in Jason’s 
bedroom. 
In addition to charges relating to the cocaine in the 
suitcase, Jason is charged with unlawful possession 
of weapons. 
Jason moves pretrial to suppress the use as evidence 
of the weapons seized by the police and of the 
statement he made. 

66.		 As to the switchblade knife and the .45-caliber 
pistol, Jason’s motion to suppress should be 
(A)		 granted, because the search and seizure 
were the result of illegal police conduct 
in executing the search warrant. 
(B)		 granted, because the police did not 
inform Jason that he was under arrest 
and did not read him his Miranda rights. 
(C)		 denied, because the search and seizure 
were incident to a lawful arrest. 
(D)		 denied, because the police had 
reasonable grounds to believe that there 
were weapons in the house. 
67.		 As to Jason’s statement, his motion to 
suppress should be 
(A)		 granted, because the entry by forcing 
open the door was not reasonable. 
(B)		 granted, because the police failed to read 
Jason his Miranda rights. 
(C)		 denied, because the statement was 
volunteered. 
(D)		 denied, because the statement was the 
product of a lawful public safety search. 
68.		 As to the Uzi automatic weapon, Jason’s 
motion to suppress should be 
(A)		 granted, because the search exceeded the 
scope needed to find out if other persons 
were present. 
(B)		 granted, because once the object of the 
warrant—the brown suitcase—had been 
found and seized, no further search of the 
house is permitted. 
(C)		 denied, because the police were lawfully 
in the bedroom and the weapon was 
immediately identifiable as being subject 
to seizure. 
(D)		 denied, because the police were lawfully 
in the house and had probable cause to 
believe that weapons were in the house. 

69.		 Plaintiff is suing Doctor for medical 
malpractice occasioned by allegedly 
prescribing an incorrect medication, causing 
Plaintiff to undergo substantial hospitalization. 
When Doctor learned of the medication 
problem, she immediately offered to pay 
Plaintiff’s hospital expenses. At trial, Plaintiff 
offers evidence of Doctor’s offer to pay the 
costs of his hospitalization. 
The evidence of Doctor’s offer is 
(A)		 admissible as a nonhearsay statement of 
a party. 
(B)		 admissible, although hearsay, as a 
statement against interest. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is an offer to pay 
medical expenses. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is an offer to 
compromise. 
70.		 Sam and two of his friends were members 
of a teenage street gang. While they were 
returning from a dance late one evening, their 
car collided with a car driven by an elderly 
woman. After an argument, Sam attacked 
the elderly woman with his fists and beat her 
to death. Sam’s two friends watched, and 
when they saw the woman fall to the ground 
they urged Sam to flee. Sam was eventually 
apprehended and tried for manslaughter, but 
the jury could not decide on a verdict. 
If Sam’s companions are subsequently tried as 
accomplices to manslaughter, they should be 
(A)		 acquitted, because Sam was not 
convicted of the offense. 
(B)		 acquitted, because they did not assist or 
encourage Sam to commit the crime. 
(C)		 convicted, because they urged him to 
flee. 
(D)		 convicted, because they made no effort 
to intervene. 
71.		 Employer retained Doctor to evaluate 
medical records of prospective employees. 
Doctor informed Employer that Applicant, a 
prospective employee, suffered from AIDS. 
Employer informed Applicant of this and 
declined to hire her. 
Applicant was shocked by this news and 
suffered a heart attack as a result. Subsequent 
tests revealed that Applicant in fact did 
not have AIDS. Doctor had negligently 
confused Applicant’s file with that of another 
prospective employee. 
If Applicant sued Doctor for damages, on 
which of the following causes of action would 
Applicant recover? 
I.		 Invasion of privacy. 
II.		 Negligent misrepresentation. 
III.		 Negligent infliction of emotional 
distress. 
(A)		 III only. 
(B)		 I and II only. 
(C)		 II and III only. 
(D)		 I, II, and III. 

Questions 72-73
Gourmet, a famous chef, entered into a written 
agreement with his friend Deligor, a well-known 
interior decorator respected for his unique designs, 
in which Deligor agreed, for a fixed fee, to design 
the interior of Gourmet’s new restaurant, and, upon 
Gourmet’s approval of the design plan, to decorate 
and furnish the restaurant accordingly. The 
agreement was silent as to assignment or delegation 
by either party. Before beginning the work, Deligor 
sold his decorating business to Newman under an 
agreement in which Deligor assigned to Newman, 
and Newman agreed to complete, the GourmetDeligor contract. Newman, also an experienced
decorator of excellent repute, advised Gourmet of 
the assignment, and supplied him with information 
confirming both Newman’s financial responsibility 
and past commercial success. 
72.		 Is Gourmet obligated to permit Newman to 
perform the Gourmet-Deligor agreement? 
(A)		 Yes, because the agreement contained 
no prohibition against assignment or 
delegation.
(B)		 Yes, because Gourmet received adequate 
assurances of Newman’s ability to 
complete the job. 
(C)		 No, because Deligor’s duties were of a 
personal nature, involving his reputation, 
taste, and skill. 
(D)		 No, because Deligor’s purported 
delegation to Newman of his obligations 
to Gourmet effected a novation. 
73.		 If Gourmet allows Newman to perform 
and approves his design plan, but Newman 
fails without legal excuse to complete the 
decorating as agreed, against whom does 
Gourmet have an enforceable claim for breach 
of contract? 
(A)		 Deligor only, because Deligor’s 
agreement with Newman did not 
discharge his duty to Gourmet, and 
Newman made no express promise to 
Gourmet. 
(B)		 Newman only, because Deligor’s duty to 
Gourmet was discharged when Deligor 
obtained a skilled decorator (Newman) 
to perform the Gourmet-Deligor contract. 
(C)		 Newman only, because Gourmet was 
an intended beneficiary of the DeligorNewman agreement, and Deligor’s 
duty to Gourmet was discharged when 
Gourmet permitted Newman to do the 
work and approved Newman’s design. 
(D)		 Either Deligor, because his agreement 
with Newman did not discharge his 
duty to Gourmet; or Newman, because 
Gourmet was an intended beneficiary of 
the Deligor-Newman agreement. 
74.		 Plaintiff sued Defendant Auto Manufacturing 
for his wife’s death, claiming that a defective
steering mechanism on the family car caused it 
to veer off the road and hit a tree when his wife 
was driving. Defendant claims that the steering
mechanism was damaged in the collision and 
offers testimony that the deceased wife was 
intoxicated at the time of the accident. 
Testimony concerning the wife’s intoxication 
is 
(A)		 admissible to provide an alternate 
explanation of the accident’s cause. 
(B)		 admissible as proper evidence of the 
wife’s character. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is improper to 
prove character evidence by specific 
conduct. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is substantially 
more prejudicial than probative. 

75.		 Otis owned in fee simple Lots 1 and 2 in an 
urban subdivision. The lots were vacant and 
unproductive. They were held as a speculation 
that their value would increase. Otis died and, 
by his duly probated will, devised the residue 
of his estate (of which Lots 1 and 2 were part) 
to Lena for life with remainder in fee simple 
to Rose. Otis’s executor distributed the estate 
under appropriate court order, and notified 
Lena that future real estate taxes on Lots 1 and 
2 were Lena’s responsibility to pay. 
Except for the statutes relating to probate and 
those relating to real estate taxes, there is no 
applicable statute. 
Lena failed to pay the real estate taxes due 
for Lots 1 and 2. To prevent a tax sale of the 
fee simple, Rose paid the taxes and demanded 
that Lena reimburse her for same. When Lena 
refused, Rose brought an appropriate action 
against Lena to recover the amount paid. 
In such action, Rose should recover 
(A)		 the amount paid, because a life tenant 
has the duty to pay current charges. 
(B)		 the present value of the interest that the 
amount paid would earn during Lena’s 
lifetime. 
(C)		 nothing, because Lena’s sole possession 
gave the right to decide whether or not 
taxes should be paid. 
(D)		 nothing, because Lena never received 
any income from the lots. 
76.		 During an altercation between Oscar and 
Martin at a company picnic, Oscar suffered a 
knife wound in his abdomen and Martin was 
charged with assault and attempted murder. At 
his trial, Martin seeks to offer evidence that he 
had been drinking at the picnic and was highly 
intoxicated at the time of the altercation. 
In a jurisdiction that follows the common-law 
rules concerning admissibility of evidence 
of intoxication, the evidence of Martin’s 
intoxication should be 
(A)		 admitted without limitation. 
(B)		 admitted subject to an instruction that 
it pertains only to the attempted murder 
charge.
(C)		 admitted subject to an instruction that it 
pertains only to the assault charge. 
(D)		 excluded altogether. 
77.		 Plaintiff Construction Co. sued Defendant 
Development Co. for money owed on a costplus contract that required notice of proposed 
expenditures beyond original estimates. 
Defendant asserted that it never received 
the required notice. At trial Plaintiff calls its 
general manager, Witness, to testify that it is 
Plaintiff’s routine practice to send cost overrun 
notices as required by the contract. Witness 
also offers a photocopy of the cost overrun 
notice letter to Defendant on which Plaintiff 
is relying, and which he has taken from 
Plaintiff’s regular business files. 
On the issue of giving notice, the letter copy is 
(A)		 admissible, though hearsay, under the 
business record exception. 
(B)		 admissible, because of the routine 
practices of the company. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because it is not the best 
evidence of the notice. 

78.		 Plaintiff sued Defendant under an age 
discrimination statute, alleging that Defendant 
refused to hire Plaintiff because she was 
over age 65. Defendant’s defense was that 
he refused to employ Plaintiff because he 
reasonably believed that she would be unable 
to perform the job. Defendant seeks to testify 
that Employer, Plaintiff’s former employer, 
advised him not to hire Plaintiff because she 
was unable to perform productively for more 
than four hours a day. 
The testimony of Defendant is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because Defendant’s 
opinion of Plaintiff’s abilities is not 
based on personal knowledge. 
(B)		 inadmissible, because Employer’s 
statement is hearsay not within any 
exception.
(C)		 admissible as evidence that Plaintiff 
would be unable to work longer than 
four hours per day. 
(D)		 admissible as evidence of Defendant’s 
reason for refusing to hire Plaintiff. 
79.		 A federal statute provides that the cities in 
which certain specified airports are located 
may regulate the rates and services of all 
limousines that serve those airports, without 
regard to the origin or destination of the 
passengers who use the limousines. 
The cities of Redville and Greenville are 
located adjacent to each other in different 
states. The airport serving both of them is 
located in Redville and is one of those airports 
specified in the federal statute. The Redville 
City Council has adopted a rule that requires 
any limousines serving the airport to charge 
only the rates authorized by the Redville City 
Council. 
Airline Limousine Service has a lucrative 
business transporting passengers between 
Greenville and the airport in Redville, at much 
lower rates than those required by the Redville 
City Council. It transports passengers in 
interstate traffic only; it does not provide local 
service within Redville. The new rule adopted 
by the Redville City Council will require 
Airline Limousine Service to charge the same 
rates as limousines operating only in Redville. 
Must Airline Limousine Service comply with 
the new rule of the Redville City Council? 
(A)		 Yes, because the airport is located in 
Redville and, therefore, its city council 
has exclusive regulatory authority over 
all transportation to and from the airport. 
(B)		 Yes, because Congress has authorized 
this form of regulation by Redville and, 
therefore, removed any constitutional 
impediments to it that may have 
otherwise existed. 
(C)		 No, because the rule would arbitrarily 
destroy a lucrative existing business 
and, therefore, would amount to a taking 
without just compensation. 
(D)		 No, because Airline Limousine Service 
is engaged in interstate commerce and 
this rule is an undue burden on that 
commerce. 

80.		 While approaching an intersection with the 
red light against him, Motorist suffered a 
heart attack that rendered him unconscious. 
Motorist’s car struck Child, who was crossing 
the street with the green light in her favor. 
Under the state motor vehicle code, it is an 
offense to drive through a red traffic light. 
Child sued Motorist to recover for her injuries. 
At trial it was stipulated that (1) immediately 
prior to suffering the heart attack, Motorist had 
been driving within the speed limit, had seen 
the red light, and had begun to slow his car; 
(2) Motorist had no history of heart disease 
and no warning of this attack; (3) while 
Motorist was unconscious, his car ran the red 
light. 
On cross motions for directed verdicts on 
the issue of liability at the conclusion of the 
proofs, the court should 
(A)		 grant Child’s motion, because Motorist 
ran a red light in violation of the motor 
vehicle code. 
(B)		 grant Child’s motion, because, in the 
circumstances, reasonable persons would 
infer that Motorist was negligent. 
(C)		 grant Motorist’s motion, because he had 
no history of heart disease or warning of 
the heart attack. 
(D)		 deny both motions and submit the case 
to the jury, to determine whether, in the 
circumstances, Motorist’s conduct was 
that of a reasonably prudent person. 
81.		 In a jurisdiction without a Dead Man’s Statute, 
Parker’s estate sued Davidson claiming that 
Davidson had borrowed from Parker $10,000, 
which had not been repaid as of Parker’s 
death. Parker was run over by a truck. At the 
accident scene, while dying from massive 
injuries, Parker told Officer Smith to “make 
sure my estate collects the $10,000 I loaned to 
Davidson.” 
Smith’s testimony about Parker’s statement is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because it is more unfairly 
prejudicial than probative. 
(B)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
(C)		 admissible as an excited utterance. 
(D)		 admissible as a statement under belief of 
impending death. 

Questions 82-83  
 
Landholder was land-rich by inheritance but 
money-poor, having suffered severe losses on bad 
investments, but still owned several thousand acres 
of unencumbered timberland. He had a large family, 
and his normal, fixed personal expenses were high. 
Pressed for cash, he advertised a proposed sale of 
standing timber on a choice 2,000-acre tract. The 
only response was an offer by Logger, the owner 
of a large, integrated construction enterprise, after 
inspection of the advertised tract. 
82.		 For this question only, assume the following 
facts. Logger offered to buy, sever, and 
remove the standing timber from the 
advertised tract at a cash price 70% lower than 
the regionally prevailing price for comparable 
timber rights. Landholder, by then in desperate 
financial straits and knowing little about 
timber values, signed and delivered to Logger 
a letter accepting the offer. 
If, before Logger commences performance, 
Landholder’s investment fortunes suddenly 
improve and he wishes to get out of the timber 
deal with Logger, which of the following legal 
concepts affords his best prospect of effective 
cancellation? 
(A)		 Bad faith. 
(B)		 Equitable estoppel. 
(C)		 Unconscionability.
(D)		 Duress. 
83.		 For this question only, assume the following 
facts. Logger offered a fair price for the 
timber rights in question, and Landholder 
accepted the offer. The 2,000-acre tract was an 
abundant wild-game habitat and had been used 
for many years, with Landholder’s permission, 
by area hunters. Logger’s performance of the 
timber contract would destroy this habitat. 
Without legal excuse and over Landholder’s 
strong objection, Logger repudiated the 
contract before commencing performance. 
Landholder could not afford to hire a lawyer 
and take legal action, and made no attempt to 
assign any cause of action he might have had 
against Logger. 
If Logger is sued for breach of the contract by 
Landholder’s next-door neighbor, whose view 
of a nearby lake is obscured by the standing 
timber, the neighbor will probably 
(A)		 lose, as only an incidental beneficiary, if 
any, of the Logger-Landholder contract. 
(B)		 lose, as a maintainer of nuisance 
litigation.
(C)		 prevail, as a third-party intended 
beneficiary of the Logger-Landholder 
contract. 
(D)		 prevail, as a surrogate for Landholder 
in view of his inability to enforce the 
contract. 

84.		 A federal statute with inseverable provisions 
established a new five-member National 
Prosperity Board with broad regulatory powers 
over the operation of the securities, banking, 
and commodities industries, including the 
power to issue rules with the force of law. 
The statute provides for three of the board 
members to be appointed by the President with 
the advice and consent of the Senate. They 
serve seven-year terms and are removable only 
for good cause. The other two members of 
the board were designated in the statute to be 
the respective general counsel of the Senate 
and House of Representatives Committees on 
Government Operations. The statute stipulated 
that they were to serve on the board for as 
long as they continued in those positions. 
Following all required administrative 
procedures, the board issued an elaborate set 
of rules regulating the operations of all banks, 
securities dealers, and commodities brokers. 
The Green Light Securities Company, which 
was subject to the board’s rules, sought a 
declaratory judgment that the rules were 
invalid because the statute establishing the 
board was unconstitutional. 
In this case, the court should rule that the 
statute establishing the National Prosperity 
Board is 
(A)		 unconstitutional, because all members 
of federal boards having broad powers 
that are quasi-legislative in nature, such 
as rulemaking, must be appointed by 
Congress.
(B)		 unconstitutional, because all members 
of federal boards exercising executive 
powers must be appointed by the 
President or in a manner otherwise 
consistent with the appointments clause 
of Article II. 
(C)		 constitutional, because the necessary and 
proper clause authorizes Congress to 
determine the means by which members 
are appointed to boards created by 
Congress under its power to regulate 
commerce among the states. 
(D)		 constitutional, because there is a 
substantial nexus between the power 
of Congress to legislate for the general 
welfare and the means specified 
by Congress in this statute for the 
appointment of board members. 
85.		 By a writing, Oner leased his home, 
Blackacre, to Tenn for a term of three years, 
ending December 31 of last year, at the rent 
of $1,000 per month. The lease provided that 
Tenn could sublet and assign. 
Tenn lived in Blackacre for one year and paid 
the rent promptly. After one year, Tenn leased 
Blackacre to Agrit for one year at a rent of 
$1,000 per month. 
Agrit took possession of Blackacre and lived 
there for six months but, because of her 
unemployment, paid no rent. After six months, 
on June 30 Agrit abandoned Blackacre, which 
remained vacant for the balance of that year. 
Tenn again took possession of Blackacre at 
the beginning of the third and final year of the 
term but paid Oner no rent. 
At the end of the lease term, Oner brought an 
appropriate action against both Tenn and Agrit 
to recover $24,000, the unpaid rent. 
In such action Oner is entitled to a judgment 
(A)		 against Tenn individually for $24,000, 
and no judgment against Agrit. 
(B)		 against Tenn individually for $18,000, 
and against Agrit individually for $6,000. 
(C)		 against Tenn for $12,000, and against 
Tenn and Agrit jointly and severally for 
$12,000. 
(D)		 against Tenn individually for $18,000, 
and against Tenn and Agrit jointly and 
severally for $6,000. 

86.		 In a trial to a jury, Owner proved that Power 
Company’s negligent maintenance of a 
transformer caused a fire that destroyed his 
restaurant. The jury returned a verdict for 
Owner in the amount of $450,000 for property 
loss and $500,000 for emotional distress. The 
trial judge entered judgment in those amounts. 
Power Company appealed that part of the 
judgment awarding $500,000 for emotional 
distress. 
On appeal, the judgment should be 
(A)		 affirmed, because Power Company 
negligently caused Owner’s emotional 
distress. 
(B)		 affirmed, because harm arising from 
emotional distress is as real as harm 
caused by physical impact. 
(C)		 reversed, because the law does not 
recognize a claim for emotional distress 
incident to negligently caused property 
loss. 
(D)		 reversed, unless the jury found that 
Owner suffered physical harm as a 
consequence of the emotional distress 
caused by his property loss. 

87.		 Bill owned in fee simple Lot 1 in a properly 
approved subdivision, designed and zoned 
for industrial use. Gail owned the adjoining 
Lot 2 in the same subdivision. The plat of the 
subdivision was recorded as authorized by 
statute. 
Twelve years ago, Bill erected an industrial 
building wholly situated on Lot 1 but with 
one wall along the boundary common 
with Lot 2. The construction was done as 
authorized by a building permit, validly 
obtained under applicable statutes, ordinances, 
and regulations. Further, the construction 
was regularly inspected and passed as 
being in compliance with all building code 
requirements. 
Lot 2 remained vacant until six months ago, 
when Gail began excavation pursuant to a 
building permit authorizing the erection of an 
industrial building situated on Lot 2 but with 
one wall along the boundary common with 
Lot 1. The excavation caused subsidence of 
a portion of Lot 1 that resulted in injury to 
Bill’s building. The excavation was not done 
negligently or with any malicious intent to 
injure. In the jurisdiction, the time to acquire 
title by adverse possession or rights by 
prescription is 10 years. 
Bill brought an appropriate action against Gail 
to recover damages resulting from the injuries 
to the building on Lot 1. 
In such lawsuit, judgment should be for 
(A)		 Bill, if, but only if, the subsidence would 
have occurred without the weight of the 
building on Lot 1. 
(B)		 Bill, because a right for support, 
appurtenant to Lot 1, had been acquired 
by adverse possession or prescription. 
(C)		 Gail, because Lots 1 and 2 are urban 
land, as distinguished from rural land 
and, therefore, under the circumstances 
Bill had the duty to protect any 
improvements on Lot 1. 
(D)		 Gail, because the construction and the 
use to be made of the building were both 
authorized by the applicable law. 
88.		 Defendant is charged with murder in 
connection with a carjacking incident during 
which Defendant allegedly shot Victim 
while attempting to steal Victim’s car. The 
prosecutor calls Victim’s four-year-old son, 
whose face was horribly disfigured by the 
same bullet, to testify that Defendant shot his 
father and him. 
The son’s testimony should be 
(A)		 admitted, provided the prosecutor first 
provides evidence that persuades the 
judge that the son is competent to testify 
despite his tender age. 
(B)		 admitted, provided there is sufficient 
basis for believing that the son has 
personal knowledge and understands his 
obligation to testify truthfully. 
(C)		 excluded, because it is insufficiently 
probative in view of the son’s tender age. 
(D)		 excluded, because it is more unfairly 
prejudicial than probative. 

89.		 A federal statute provides that the United 
States Supreme Court has authority to review 
any case filed in a United States Court of 
Appeals, even though that case has not yet 
been decided by the court of appeals. 
The Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA), an agency in the executive branch of 
the federal government, issued an important 
environmental rule. Although the rule had not 
yet been enforced against them, companies 
that would be adversely affected by the rule 
filed a petition for review of the rule in a court 
of appeals, seeking a declaration that the rule 
was invalid solely because it was beyond the 
statutory authority of the EPA. The companies 
made no constitutional claim. A statute 
specifically provides for direct review of EPA 
rules by a court of appeals without any initial 
action in a district court. 
The companies have filed a petition for a writ 
of certiorari in the Supreme Court requesting 
immediate review of this case by the Supreme 
Court before the court of appeals has actually 
decided the case. The EPA acknowledges 
that the case is important enough to warrant 
Supreme Court review and that it should be 
decided promptly, but it asks the Supreme 
Court to dismiss the petition on jurisdictional 
grounds. 
The best constitutional argument in support of 
the EPA’s request is that 
(A)		 the case is not within the original 
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as 
defined by Article III, and it is not a 
proper subject of that court’s appellate 
jurisdiction because it has not yet been 
decided by any lower court. 
(B)		 the case is appellate in nature, but it is 
beyond the appellate jurisdiction of the 
Supreme Court, because Article III states 
that its jurisdiction extends only to cases 
arising under the Constitution. 
(C)		 Article III precludes federal courts from 
reviewing the validity of any federal 
agency rule in any proceeding other than 
an action to enforce the rule. 
(D)		 Article III provides that all federal 
cases, except those within the original 
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, must 
be initiated by an action in a federal 
district court. 

90.		 Patron ate a spicy dinner at Restaurant on 
Sunday night. He enjoyed the food and noticed 
nothing unusual about the dinner. 
Later that evening, Patron had an upset 
stomach. He slept well through the night, went 
to work the next day, and ate three meals. His 
stomach discomfort persisted, and by Tuesday 
morning he was too ill to go to work. 
Eventually, Patron consulted his doctor, 
who found that Patron was infected with 
a bacterium that can be contracted from 
contaminated food. Food can be contaminated 
when those who prepare it do not adequately 
wash their hands. 
Patron sued Restaurant for damages. He 
introduced testimony from a health department 
official that various health code violations had 
been found at Restaurant both before and after 
Patron’s dinner, but that none of Restaurant’s 
employees had signs of bacterial infection 
when they were tested one month after the 
incident. 
Restaurant’s best argument in response to 
Patron’s suit would be that 
(A)		 no one else who ate at Restaurant on 
Sunday complained about stomach 
discomfort. 
(B)		 Restaurant instructs its employees to 
wash their hands carefully and is not 
responsible if any employee fails to 
follow these instructions. 
(C)		 Patron has failed to establish that 
Restaurant’s food caused his illness. 
(D)		 Patron assumed the risk of an upset 
stomach by choosing to eat spicy food. 
91.		 In a jurisdiction that has abolished the 
felony-murder rule, but otherwise follows the 
common law of murder, Sally and Ralph, both 
armed with automatic weapons, went into a 
bank to rob it. Ralph ordered all the persons 
in the bank to lie on the floor. When some 
were slow to obey, Sally, not intending to hit 
anyone, fired about 15 rounds into the air. One 
of these ricocheted off a stone column and 
struck and killed a customer in the bank. 
Sally and Ralph were charged with murder of 
the customer. 
Which of the following is correct? 
(A)		 Sally can be convicted of murder, 
because she did the act of killing, but 
Ralph cannot be convicted of either 
murder or manslaughter. 
(B)		 Neither can be guilty of murder, but both 
can be convicted of manslaughter based 
upon an unintentional homicide. 
(C)		 Sally can be convicted only of 
manslaughter, but Ralph cannot be 
convicted of murder or manslaughter. 
(D)		 Both can be convicted of murder. 

92.		 In recent years, several large corporations 
incorporated and headquartered in State A 
have suddenly been acquired by out-of-state 
corporations that have moved all of their 
operations out of State A. Other corporations 
incorporated and headquartered in State A 
have successfully resisted such attempts at 
acquisition by out-of-state corporations, but 
they have suffered severe economic injury 
during those acquisition attempts. 
In an effort to preserve jobs in State A and 
to protect its domestic corporations against 
their sudden acquisition by out-of-state 
purchasers, the legislature of State A enacts 
a statute governing acquisitions of shares in 
all corporations incorporated in State A. This 
statute requires that any acquisition of more 
than 25% of the voting shares of a corporation 
incorporated in State A that occurs over a 
period of less than one year must be approved 
by the holders of record of a majority of the 
shares of the corporation as of the day before 
the commencement of the acquisition of 
those shares. The statute expressly applies to 
acquisitions of State A corporations by both 
in-state and out-of-state entities. 
Assume that no federal statute applies. 
Is this statute of State A constitutional? 
(A)		 No, because one of the purposes of the 
statute is to prevent out-of-state entities 
from acquiring corporations incorporated 
and headquartered in State A. 
(B)		 No, because the effect of the statute 
will necessarily be to hinder the 
acquisition of State A corporations 
by other corporations, many of whose 
shareholders are not residents of State A 
and, therefore, it will adversely affect the 
interstate sale of securities. 
(C)		 Yes, because the statute imposes the 
same burden on both in-state and outof-state entities wishing to acquire a 
State A corporation, it regulates only the 
acquisition of State A corporations, and 
it does not create an impermissible risk 
of inconsistent regulation on this subject 
by different states. 
(D)		 Yes, because corporations exist only by 
virtue of state law and, therefore, the 
negative implications of the commerce 
clause do not apply to state regulations 
governing their creation and acquisition. 

93.		 A written construction contract began with 
the following recital: “This Agreement, 
between Land, Inc. (hereafter called ‘Owner’), 
and Builder, Inc., and Boss, its President 
(hereafter called ‘Contractor’), witnesseth:” 
The signatures to the contract appeared in the 
following format: 
LAND, INC. 
By /s/ Oscar Land
 President 
BUILDER, INC. 
By /s/ George Mason
Vice President 
/s/ Mary Boss, President
Mary Boss 
Builder, Inc., became insolvent and defaulted. 
Land, Inc., sued Boss individually for 
the breach, and at the trial Boss proffered 
evidence from the pre-contract negotiations 
that only Builder, Inc., was to be legally 
responsible for performing the contract. 
If the court finds the contract to be completely 
integrated, is Boss’s proffered evidence 
admissible? 
(A)		 Yes, because the writing is ambiguous 
as to whether or not Boss was intended 
individually to be a contracting party. 
(B)		 Yes, because the evidence would 
contradict neither the recital nor the form 
of Boss’s signature. 
(C)		 No, because the legal effect of Boss’s 
signature cannot be altered by evidence 
of prior understandings. 
(D)		 No, because of the application of the 
“four corners” rule, under which the 
meaning of a completely integrated 
contract must be ascertained solely from 
its own terms. 
94.		 When Parents were told that their child, Son, 
should repeat second grade, they sought to 
have him evaluated by a psychologist. The 
psychologist, who charged $300, determined 
that Son had a learning disability. Based upon 
the report, the school board placed Son in 
special classes. At an open meeting of the 
school board, Parents asked that the $300 they 
had paid to the psychologist be reimbursed by 
the school district. A reporter attending the 
meeting wrote a newspaper article about this 
request, mentioning Son by name. 
In a privacy action brought by Son’s legal 
representative against the newspaper, the 
plaintiff will 
(A)		 recover, because the story is not 
newsworthy.
(B)		 recover, because Son is under the age of 
consent. 
(C)		 not recover, if the story is a fair and 
accurate report of what transpired at the 
meeting.
(D)		 not recover, if Parents knew that the 
reporter was present. 

95. On trial for murdering her husband, Defendant 
testified she acted in self-defense. Defendant 
calls Expert, a psychologist, to testify that 
under hypnosis Defendant had described the 
killing, and that in Expert’s opinion Defendant 
had been in fear for her life at the time of the 
killing. 
Is Expert’s testimony admissible? 
(A)		 Yes, because Expert was able to 
ascertain that Defendant was speaking 
truthfully.
(B)		 Yes, because it reports a prior consistent 
statement by a witness (Defendant) 
subject to examination concerning it. 
(C)		 No, because reliance on information 
tainted by hypnosis is unconstitutional. 
(D)		 No, because it expresses an opinion 
concerning Defendant’s mental state at 
the time of the killing. 
96. The legislature of State X enacts a statute 
that it believes reconciles the state’s interest 
in the preservation of human life with a 
woman’s right to reproductive choice. That 
statute permits a woman to have an abortion 
on demand during the first trimester of 
pregnancy but prohibits a woman from having 
an abortion after that time unless her physician 
determines that the abortion is necessary to 
protect the woman’s life or health. 
If challenged on constitutional grounds in an 
appropriate court, this statute will probably be 
held 
(A)		 constitutional, because the state has 
made a rational policy choice that 
creates an equitable balance between the 
compelling state interest in protecting 
fetal life and the fundamental right of a 
woman to reproductive choice. 
(B)		 constitutional, because recent rulings by 
the United States Supreme Court indicate 
that after the first trimester a fetus may 
be characterized as a person whose right 
to life is protected by the due process 
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
(C)		 unconstitutional, because the state has, 
without adequate justification, placed an 
undue burden on the fundamental right 
of a woman to reproductive choice prior 
to fetal viability. 
(D)		 unconstitutional, because a statute 
unqualifiedly permitting abortion at 
one stage of pregnancy, and denying it 
at another with only minor exceptions, 
establishes an arbitrary classification in 
violation of the equal protection clause 
of the Fourteenth Amendment. 

97.		 Olive owned Blackacre, a single-family 
residence. Fifteen years ago, Olive conveyed a 
life estate in Blackacre to Lois. 
Fourteen years ago, Lois, who had taken 
possession of Blackacre, leased Blackacre to 
Trent for a term of 15 years at the monthly 
rental of $500. 
Eleven years ago, Lois died intestate leaving 
Ron as her sole heir. 
Trent regularly paid rent to Lois and, after 
Lois’s death, to Ron until last month. 
The period in which to acquire title by adverse 
possession in the jurisdiction is 10 years. 
In an appropriate action, Trent, Olive, and Ron 
each asserted ownership of Blackacre. 
The court should hold that title in fee simple is 
in 
(A)		 Olive, because Olive held a reversion 
and Lois has died. 
(B)		 Ron, because Lois asserted a claim 
adverse to Olive when Lois executed a 
lease to Trent. 
(C)		 Ron, because Trent’s occupation was 
attributable to Ron, and Lois died 11 
years ago. 
(D)		 Trent, because of Trent’s physical 
occupancy and because Trent’s term 
ended with Lois’s death. 
98.		 While browsing in a clothing store, Alice 
decided to take a purse without paying for it. 
She placed the purse under her coat and took 
a couple of steps toward the exit. She then 
realized that a sensor tag on the purse would 
set off an alarm. She placed the purse near the 
counter from which she had removed it. 
Alice has committed 
(A)		 no crime, because the purse was never 
removed from the store. 
(B)		 no crime, because she withdrew from her 
criminal enterprise. 
(C)		 only attempted larceny, because she 
intended to take the purse out of the 
store. 
(D)		 larceny, because she took the purse from 
its original location and concealed it with 
the intent to steal. 

Questions 99-100  
 
Adam’s car sustained moderate damage in a 
collision with a car driven by Basher. The accident 
was caused solely by Basher’s negligence. Adam’s 
car was still drivable after the accident. Examining 
the car the next morning, Adam could see that a 
rear fender had to be replaced. He also noticed that 
gasoline had dripped onto the garage floor. The 
collision had caused a small leak in the gasoline 
tank. 
Adam then took the car to Mechanic, who owns and 
operates a body shop, and arranged with Mechanic 
to repair the damage. During their discussion Adam 
neglected to mention the gasoline leakage. Thereafter,
while Mechanic was loosening some of the damaged
material with a hammer, he caused a spark, igniting 
vapor and gasoline that had leaked from the fuel 
tank. Mechanic was severely burned. 
Mechanic has brought an action to recover damages 
against Adam and Basher. The jurisdiction has 
adopted a pure comparative negligence rule in place 
of the traditional common-law rule of contributory 
negligence. 
99.		 In this action, will Mechanic obtain a 
judgment against Basher? 
(A)		 No, unless there is evidence that Basher 
was aware of the gasoline leak. 
(B)		 No, if Mechanic would not have been 
harmed had Adam warned him about the 
gasoline leak. 
(C)		 Yes, unless Mechanic was negligent 
in not discovering the gasoline leak 
himself. 
(D)		 Yes, if Mechanic’s injury was a 
proximate consequence of Basher’s 
negligent driving. 
100. In this action, will Mechanic obtain a 
judgment against Adam? 
(A)		 No, because it was Mechanic’s job to 
inspect the vehicle and repair whatever 
needed repair. 
(B)		 No, unless Adam was aware of the risk 
that the gasoline leak represented. 
(C)		 Yes, if a reasonable person in Adam’s 
position would have warned Mechanic 
about the gasoline leak. 
(D)		 Yes, because the car was unreasonably 
dangerous when Adam delivered it to 
Mechanic. 
101. At 11:00 p.m., John and Marsha were accosted 
in the entrance to their apartment building 
by Dirk, who was armed as well as masked. 
Dirk ordered the couple to take him into their 
apartment. After they entered the apartment, 
Dirk forced Marsha to bind and gag her 
husband John and then to open a safe which 
contained a diamond necklace. Dirk then tied 
her up and fled with the necklace. He was 
apprehended by apartment building security 
guards. Before the guards could return to the 
apartment, but after Dirk was arrested, John, 
straining to free himself, suffered a massive 
heart attack and died. 
Dirk is guilty of 
(A)		 burglary, robbery, and murder. 
(B)		 robbery and murder only. 
(C)		 burglary and robbery only. 
(D)		 robbery only. 
102. Plaintiff sued Defendant for injuries suffered 
in a car accident allegedly caused by 
brakes that had been negligently repaired 
by Defendant. At a settlement conference, 
Plaintiff exhibited the brake shoe that caused 
the accident and pointed out the alleged defect 
to an expert, whom Defendant had brought to 
the conference. No settlement was reached. 
At trial, the brake shoe having disappeared, 
Plaintiff seeks to testify concerning the 
condition of the shoe. 
Plaintiff’s testimony is 
(A)		 admissible, because Defendant’s expert 
had been able to examine the shoe 
carefully.
(B)		 admissible, because Plaintiff had 
personal knowledge of the shoe’s 
condition. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because the brake shoe 
was produced and examined as a part of 
settlement negotiations. 
(D)		 inadmissible, unless Plaintiff establishes 
that the disappearance was not his fault. 

Questions 103-104  
 
Fixtures, Inc., in a signed writing, contracted 
with Apartments for the sale to Apartments of 50 
identical sets of specified bathroom fixtures, 25 sets 
to be delivered on March 1, and the remaining 25 
sets on April 1. The agreement did not specify the 
place of delivery, or the time or place of payment. 
103. Which of the following statements is correct? 
(A)		 Fixtures must tender 25 sets to 
Apartments at Apartments’ place of 
business on March 1, but does not have 
to turn them over to Apartments until 
Apartments pays the contract price for 
the 25 sets. 
(B)		 Fixtures has no duty to deliver the 25 
sets on March 1 at Fixtures’ place of 
business unless Apartments tenders the 
contract price for the 25 sets on that date. 
(C)		 Fixtures must deliver 25 sets on March 
1, and Apartments must pay the contract 
price for the 25 sets within a reasonable 
time after their delivery. 
(D)		 Fixtures must deliver 25 sets on March 
1, but Apartments’ payment is due only 
upon the delivery of all 50 sets. 
104. For this question only, make the following 
assumptions. On March 1, Fixtures tendered 
24 sets to Apartments and explained, “One 
of the 25 sets was damaged in transit from 
the manufacturer to us, but we will deliver a 
replacement within 5 days.” 
Which of the following statements is correct? 
(A)		 Apartments is entitled to accept any 
number of the 24 sets, reject the rest, 
and cancel the contract both as to any 
rejected sets and the lot due on April 1. 
(B)		 Apartments is entitled to accept any 
number of the 24 sets and to reject the 
rest, but is not entitled to cancel the 
contract as to any rejected sets or the lot 
due on April 1. 
(C)		 Apartments must accept the 24 sets but is 
entitled to cancel the rest of the contract. 
(D)		 Apartments must accept the 24 sets and 
is not entitled to cancel the rest of the 
contract. 

105. Defendant is on trial for nighttime breaking 
and entering of a warehouse. The warehouse 
owner had set up a camera to take infrared 
pictures of any intruders. After an expert 
establishes the reliability of infrared 
photography, the prosecutor offers the 
authenticated infrared picture of the intruder to 
show the similarities to Defendant. 
The photograph is 
(A)		 admissible, provided an expert witness 
points out to the jury the similarities 
between the person in the photograph 
and Defendant. 
(B)		 admissible, allowing the jury to compare 
the person in the photograph and 
Defendant. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because there was no 
eyewitness to the scene available to 
authenticate the photograph. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because infrared 
photography deprives a defendant of the 
right to confront witnesses. 
106. Olivia owned Blackacre, her home. Her 
daughter, Dawn, lived with her and always 
referred to Blackacre as “my property.” Two 
years ago, Dawn, for a valuable consideration, 
executed and delivered to Bruce an instrument 
in the proper form of a warranty deed 
purporting to convey Blackacre to Bruce in 
fee simple, reserving to herself an estate for 
two years in Blackacre. Bruce promptly and 
properly recorded his deed. 
One year ago, Olivia died and by will, duly 
admitted to probate, left her entire estate to 
Dawn. 
One month ago, Dawn, for a valuable 
consideration, executed and delivered to Carl 
an instrument in the proper form of a warranty 
deed purporting to convey Blackacre to Carl, 
who promptly and properly recorded the deed. 
Dawn was then in possession of Blackacre 
and Carl had no actual knowledge of the deed 
to Bruce. Immediately thereafter, Dawn gave 
possession to Carl. 
The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: 
“No conveyance or mortgage of real property 
shall be good against subsequent purchasers 
for value and without notice unless the same 
be recorded according to law.” 
Last week, Dawn fled the jurisdiction. Upon 
learning the facts, Carl brought an appropriate 
action against Bruce to quiet title to Blackacre. 
If Carl wins, it will be because 
(A)		 Dawn had nothing to convey to Bruce 
two years ago. 
(B)		 Dawn’s deed to Bruce was not to take 
effect until after Dawn’s deed to Carl. 
(C)		 Carl was first in possession. 
(D)		 Dawn’s deed to Bruce was not in Carl’s 
chain of title. 
  

107. Grace, while baby-sitting one night, noticed 
that Sam, who lived next door, had left 
his house but that the door did not close 
completely behind him. Grace said to Roy, 
the 11-year-old boy she was baby-sitting 
with, “Let’s play a game. You go next door 
and see if you can find my portable television 
set, which I lent to Sam, and bring it over 
here.” Grace knew that Sam had a portable 
television set and Grace planned to keep the 
set for herself. Roy thought the set belonged 
to Grace, went next door, found the television 
set, and carried it out the front door. At that 
moment, Sam returned home and discovered 
Roy in his front yard with the television set. 
Roy explained the “game” he and Grace were 
playing. Sam took back his television set and 
called the police. 
Grace is 
(A)		 not guilty of larceny or attempted 
larceny, because Roy did not commit any 
crime. 
(B)		 not guilty of larceny but guilty of 
attempted larceny, because she never 
acquired possession of the television set. 
(C)		 guilty of larceny as an accessory to Roy. 
(D)		 guilty of larceny by the use of an 
innocent agent. 
108. The warden of State Prison prohibits the 
photographing of the face of any prisoner 
without the prisoner’s consent. Photographer, 
a news photographer, wanted to photograph 
Mobster, a notorious organized crime figure 
incarcerated at State Prison. To circumvent the 
warden’s prohibition, Photographer flew over 
the prison exercise yard and photographed 
Mobster. Prisoner, who was imprisoned for 
a technical violation of a regulatory statute, 
happened to be standing next to Mobster when 
the photograph was taken. 
When the picture appeared in the press, 
Prisoner suffered severe emotional distress 
because he believed that his business 
associates and friends would think he was 
consorting with gangsters. Prisoner suffered 
no physical harm as the result of his emotional 
distress. Prisoner brought an action against 
Photographer for intentional or reckless 
infliction of emotional distress. 
What is the best argument that Photographer 
can make in support of a motion for summary 
judgment? 
(A)		 No reasonable person could conclude 
that Photographer intended to photograph 
Prisoner. 
(B)		 Prisoner did not suffer any physical 
injury arising from the emotional 
distress. 
(C)		 As a news photographer, Photographer 
was privileged to take photographs that 
others could not. 
(D)		 No reasonable person could conclude 
that Photographer’s conduct was extreme 
and outrageous as to Prisoner. 

109. The vaccination of children against 
childhood contagious diseases (such as 
measles, diphtheria and whooping cough) 
has traditionally been a function of private 
doctors and local and state health departments. 
Because vaccination rates have declined in 
recent years, especially in urban areas, the 
President proposes to appoint a Presidential 
Advisory Commission on Vaccination which 
would be charged with conducting a national 
publicity campaign to encourage vaccination 
as a public health measure. No federal statute 
authorizes or prohibits this action by the 
President. The activities of the Presidential 
Advisory Commission on Vaccination would 
be financed entirely from funds appropriated 
by Congress to the Office of the President for 
“such other purposes as the President may 
think appropriate.” 
May the President constitutionally create such 
a commission for this purpose? 
(A)		 Yes, because the President has plenary 
authority to provide for the health, 
safety, and welfare of the people of the 
United States. 
(B)		 Yes, because this action is within the 
scope of executive authority vested in 
the President by the Constitution, and no 
federal statute prohibits it. 
(C)		 No, because the protection of children 
against common diseases by vaccination 
is a traditional state function and, 
therefore, is reserved to the states by the 
Tenth Amendment. 
(D)		 No, because Congress has not 
specifically authorized the creation and 
support of such a new federal agency. 
110. Defendant is on trial for extorting $10,000 
from Victim. An issue is the identification 
of the person who made a telephone call 
to Victim. Victim is prepared to testify 
that the caller had a distinctive accent like 
Defendant’s, but that he cannot positively 
identify the voice as Defendant’s. Victim 
recorded the call but has not brought the tape 
to court, although its existence is known to 
Defendant. 
Victim’s testimony is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because Victim cannot 
sufficiently identify the caller. 
(B)		 inadmissible, because the tape recording 
of the conversation is the best evidence. 
(C)		 admissible, because Defendant waived 
the “best evidence” rule by failing to 
subpoena the tape. 
(D)		 admissible, because Victim’s lack 
of certainty goes to the weight to be 
given Victim’s testimony, not to its 
admissibility. 

111. Owner owned Greenacre, a tract of land, in fee 
simple. Owner executed an instrument in the 
proper form of a deed, purporting to convey 
Greenacre to Purchaser in fee simple. The 
instrument recited that the conveyance was 
in consideration of “$5 cash in hand paid and 
for other good and valuable consideration.” 
Owner handed the instrument to Purchaser and 
Purchaser promptly and properly recorded it. 
Two months later, Owner brought an 
appropriate action against Purchaser to cancel 
the instrument and to quiet title. In support, 
Owner proved that no money in fact had 
been paid by Purchaser, notwithstanding the 
recitation, and that no other consideration of 
any kind had been supplied by Purchaser. 
In such action, Owner should 
(A)		 lose, because any remedy Owner might 
have had was lost when the instrument 
was recorded. 
(B)		 lose, because the validity of conveyance 
of land does not depend upon 
consideration being paid, whether recited 
or not. 
(C)		 prevail, because the recitation of 
consideration paid may be contradicted 
by parol evidence. 
(D)		 prevail, because recordation does not 
make a void instrument effective. 
112. Vintner is the owner of a large vineyard and 
offers balloon rides to visitors who wish to 
tour the grounds from the air. During one 
of the rides, Vintner was forced to make a 
crash landing on his own property. Without 
Vintner’s knowledge or consent, Trespasser 
had entered the vineyard to camp for a couple 
of days. Trespasser was injured when he was 
hit by the basket of the descending balloon. 
If Trespasser sues Vintner to recover damages 
for his injuries, will Trespasser prevail? 
(A)		 No, unless the crash landing was made 
necessary by negligence on Vintner’s 
part.
(B)		 No, unless Vintner could have prevented 
the injury to Trespasser after becoming 
aware of Trespasser’s presence. 
(C)		 Yes, because even a trespasser may 
recover for injuries caused by an 
abnormally dangerous activity. 
(D)		 Yes, if the accident occurred at a place 
which Vintner knew was frequented by 
intruders. 

113. Matt and his friend Fred were watching a 
football game at Matt’s home when they 
began to argue. Fred became abusive, and 
Matt asked him to leave. Fred refused, walked 
into the kitchen, picked up a knife, and said 
he would cut Matt’s heart out. Matt pulled 
a gun from under the sofa, walked to his 
front door, opened it, and again told Fred to 
leave. Fred again refused. Instead, he walked 
slowly toward Matt, brandishing the knife in a 
threatening manner. Matt, rather than running 
out the door himself, shot in Fred’s direction, 
intending only to scare him. However, the 
bullet struck Fred, killing him instantly. 
Charged with murder, Matt should be 
(A)		 convicted, because the use of deadly 
force was unreasonable under the 
circumstances. 
(B)		 convicted, because he had a clear 
opportunity and duty to retreat. 
(C)		 acquitted, because he did not intend to 
kill Fred. 
(D)		 acquitted, because he was acting in selfdefense and had no duty to retreat. 
114. Central City in the state of Green is a 
center for businesses that assemble personal 
computers. Components for these computers 
are manufactured elsewhere in Green and 
in other states, then shipped to Central City, 
where the computers are assembled. An 
ordinance of Central City imposes a special 
license tax on all of the many companies 
engaged in the business of assembling 
computers in that city. The tax payable by 
each such company is a percentage of the 
company’s gross receipts. 
The Green statute that authorizes 
municipalities to impose this license tax has 
a “Green content” provision. To comply with 
this provision of state law, the Central City 
license tax ordinance provides that the tax 
paid by any assembler of computers subject 
to this tax ordinance will be reduced by a 
percentage equal to the proportion of computer 
components manufactured in Green. 
Assembler is a company that assembles 
computers in Central City and sells them from 
its offices in Central City to buyers throughout 
the United States. All of the components of 
its computers come from outside the state 
of Green. Therefore, Assembler must pay 
the Central City license tax in full without 
receiving any refund. Other Central City 
computer assemblers use components 
manufactured in Green in varying proportions 
and, therefore, are entitled to partial reductions 
of their Central City license tax payments. 
Following prescribed procedure, Assembler 
brings an action in a proper court asking 
to have Central City’s special license tax 
declared unconstitutional on the ground that it 
is inconsistent with the negative implications 
of the commerce clause. 
In this case, the court should rule 
(A)		 against Assembler, because the tax falls 
only on companies resident in Central 
City and, therefore, does not discriminate 
against or otherwise adversely affect 
interstate commerce. 
(B)		 against Assembler, because the 
commerce clause does not interfere with 
the right of a state to foster and support 
businesses located within its borders by 
encouraging its residents to purchase the 
products of those businesses. 
(C)		 for Assembler, because any tax on 
a company engaged in interstate 
commerce, measured in whole or in part 
by its gross receipts, is a per se violation 
of the negative implications of the 
commerce clause. 
(D)		 for Assembler, because the tax 
improperly discriminates against 
interstate commerce by treating in-state 
products more favorably than out-ofstate products. 

115. Hannah, who was homeless, broke into the 
basement of a hotel and fell asleep. She was 
awakened by a security guard, who demanded 
that she leave. As Hannah was leaving, she 
cursed the security guard. Angered, the guard 
began to beat Hannah on her head with his 
flashlight. After the second blow, Hannah 
grabbed a fire extinguisher and sprayed the 
guard in his face, causing him to lose his sight 
in one eye. 
The jurisdiction defines aggravated assault 
as assault with intent to cause serious bodily 
injury. 
The most serious crime for which Hannah 
could properly be convicted is 
(A)		 aggravated assault. 
(B)		 burglary.
(C)		 assault. 
(D)		 trespass. 
116. On March 1, Mechanic contracted to repair 
Textiles’ knitting machine and to complete 
the job by March 6. On March 2, Textiles 
contracted to manufacture and deliver 
specified cloth to Knitwear on March 15. 
Textiles knew that it would have to use the 
machine then under repair to perform this 
contract. Because the Knitwear order was for 
a rush job, Knitwear and Textiles included 
in their contract a liquidated damages clause, 
providing that Textiles would pay $5,000 for 
each day’s delay in delivery after March 15. 
Mechanic was inexcusably five days late 
in repairing the machine, and, as a result, 
Textiles was five days late in delivering the 
cloth to Knitwear. Textiles paid $25,000 to 
Knitwear as liquidated damages and now sues 
Mechanic for $25,000. Both Mechanic and 
Textiles knew when making their contract on 
March 1 that under ordinary circumstances 
Textiles would sustain little or no damages of 
any kind as a result of a five-day delay in the 
machine repair. 
Assuming that the $5,000 liquidated damages 
clause in the Knitwear-Textiles contract is 
valid, which of the following arguments will 
serve as Mechanic’s best defense to Textiles’ 
action? 
(A)		 Time was not of the essence in the 
Mechanic-Textiles contract. 
(B)		 Mechanic had no reason to foresee on 
March 1 that Knitwear would suffer 
consequential damages in the amount of 
$25,000. 
(C)		 By entering into the Knitwear contract 
while knowing that its knitting machine 
was being repaired, Textiles assumed the 
risk of any delay loss to Knitwear. 
(D)		 In all probability, the liquidated damages 
paid by Textiles to Knitwear are not 
the same amount as the actual damages 
sustained by Knitwear in consequence of 
Textiles’ late delivery of the cloth. 

117. Plaintiff sued Defendant for personal injuries 
suffered in a train-automobile collision. 
Plaintiff called an eyewitness, who testified 
that the train was going 20 miles per hour. 
Defendant then offers the testimony of an 
experienced police accident investigator that, 
based on his training and experience and on 
his examination of the physical evidence, it is 
his opinion that the train was going between 5 
and 10 miles per hour. 
Testimony by the investigator is 
(A)		 improper, because there cannot be both 
lay and expert opinion on the same issue. 
(B)		 improper, because the investigator is 
unable to establish the speed with a 
sufficient degree of scientific certainty. 
(C)		 proper, because a police accident 
investigator has sufficient expertise to 
express an opinion on speed. 
(D)		 proper, because Plaintiff first introduced 
opinion evidence as to speed. 
118. Farmer owns a small farm with several head 
of cattle, which are kept in a fenced grazing 
area. One day the cattle were frightened by 
a thunderstorm, an occasional occurrence in 
the area. The cattle broke through the fence, 
entered onto Neighbor’s property, and severely 
damaged Neighbor’s crops. Under the law of 
the state, landowners are not required to erect 
fences to prevent the intrusion of livestock. 
If Neighbor sues Farmer to recover for the 
damage done to his crops, will Neighbor 
prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because Farmer’s cattle caused the 
damage to Neighbor’s crops. 
(B)		 Yes, if Farmer’s cattle had panicked 
during previous thunderstorms. 
(C)		 No, unless the fence was negligently 
maintained by Farmer. 
(D)		 No, because the thunderstorm was a 
force of nature. 
119. Ven owned Goldacre, a tract of land, in fee 
simple. Ven and Pur entered into a written 
agreement under which Pur agreed to buy 
Goldacre for $100,000, its fair market value. 
The agreement contained all the essential 
terms of a real estate contract to sell and buy, 
including a date for closing. The required 
$50,000 down payment was made. The 
contract provided that in the event of Pur’s 
breach, Ven could retain the $50,000 deposit 
as liquidated damages. 
Before the date set for the closing in the 
contract, Pur died. On the day that Addy was 
duly qualified as administratrix of the estate 
of Pur, which was after the closing date, 
Addy made demand for return of the $50,000 
deposit. Ven responded by stating that he took 
such demand to be a declaration that Addy 
did not intend to complete the contract and 
that Ven considered the contract at an end. 
Ven further asserted that Ven was entitled to 
retain, as liquidated damages, the $50,000. 
The reasonable market value of Goldacre had 
increased to $110,000 at that time. 
Addy brought an appropriate action against 
Ven to recover the $50,000. In answer, Ven 
made no affirmative claim but asserted that he 
was entitled to retain the $50,000 as liquidated 
damages as provided in the contract. 
In such lawsuit, judgment should be for 
(A)		 Addy, because the provision relied upon 
by Ven is unenforceable. 
(B)		 Addy, because the death of Pur 
terminated the contract as a matter of 
law. 
(C)		 Ven, because the court should enforce 
the express agreement of the contracting 
parties.
(D)		 Ven, because the doctrine of equitable 
conversion prevents termination of the 
contract upon the death of a party. 
  

120. An ordinance of Central City requires every 
operator of a taxicab in the city to have 
a license and permits revocation of that 
license only for “good cause.” The Central 
City taxicab operator’s licensing ordinance 
conditions the issuance of such a license on 
an agreement by the licensee that the licensee 
“not display in or on his or her vehicle any 
bumper sticker or other placard or sign 
favoring a particular candidate for any elected 
municipal office.” The ordinance also states 
that it imposes this condition in order to 
prevent the possible imputation to the city 
council of the views of its taxicab licensees 
and that any licensee who violates this 
condition shall have his or her license revoked. 
Driver, the holder of a Central City taxicab 
operator’s license, decorates his cab with 
bumper stickers and other signs favoring 
specified candidates in a forthcoming election 
for municipal offices. A proceeding is initiated 
against him to revoke his taxicab operator’s 
license on the sole basis of that admitted 
conduct. 
In this proceeding, does Driver have a 
meritorious defense based on the United States 
Constitution? 
(A)		 No, because he accepted the license 
with knowledge of the condition and, 
therefore, has no standing to contest it. 
(B)		 No, because a taxicab operator’s 
license is a privilege and not a right 
and, therefore, is not protected by the 
due process clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment. 
(C)		 Yes, because such a proceeding threatens 
Driver with a taking of property, his 
license, without just compensation. 
(D)		 Yes, because the condition imposed 
on taxicab operators’ licenses restricts 
political speech based wholly on 
its content, without any adequate 
governmental justification. 
121. Pat had been under the care of a cardiologist 
for three years prior to submitting to an 
elective operation that was performed by 
Surgeon. Two days thereafter, Pat suffered a 
stroke, resulting in a coma, caused by a blood 
clot that lodged in her brain. When it appeared 
that she had entered a permanent vegetative 
state, with no hope of recovery, the artificial 
life-support system that had been provided was 
withdrawn, and she died a few hours later. The 
withdrawal of artificial life support had been 
requested by her family, and duly approved 
by a court. Surgeon was not involved in that 
decision, or in its execution. 
The administrator of Pat’s estate thereafter 
filed a wrongful death action against Surgeon, 
claiming that Surgeon was negligent in having 
failed to consult a cardiologist prior to the 
operation. At the trial the plaintiff offered 
evidence that accepted medical practice 
would require examination of the patient by a 
cardiologist prior to the type of operation that 
Surgeon performed. 
In this action, the plaintiff should 
(A)		 prevail, if Surgeon was negligent in 
failing to have Pat examined by a 
cardiologist prior to the operation. 
(B)		 prevail, if the blood clot that caused 
Pat’s death was caused by the operation 
which Surgeon performed. 
(C)		 not prevail, absent evidence that a 
cardiologist, had one examined Pat 
before the operation, would probably 
have provided advice that would have 
changed the outcome. 
(D)		 not prevail, because Surgeon had nothing 
to do with the withdrawal of artificial life 
support, which was the cause of Pat’s 
death. 

122. At Devlin’s trial for burglary, Jaron supported 
Devlin’s alibi that they were fishing together 
at the time of the crime. On cross-examination, 
Jaron was asked whether his statement on a 
credit card application that he had worked for 
his present employer for the last five years 
was false. Jaron denied that the statement was 
false. 
The prosecutor then calls Wilcox, the manager 
of the company for which Jaron works, to 
testify that although Jaron had been first 
employed five years earlier and is now 
employed by the company, there had been 
a three-year period during which he had not 
been so employed. 
The testimony of Wilcox is 
(A)		 admissible, in the judge’s discretion, 
because Jaron’s credibility is a fact of 
major consequence to the case. 
(B)		 admissible, as a matter of right, because 
Jaron “opened the door” by his denial on 
cross-examination. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because whether Jaron lied 
in his application is a matter that cannot 
be proved by extrinsic evidence. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because the misstatement 
by Jaron could have been caused by 
misunderstanding of the application 
form. 
123. Owen owned Blackacre in fee simple, as the 
land records showed, when he contracted to 
sell Blackacre to Bryer. Two weeks later, 
Bryer paid the agreed price and received 
a warranty deed. A week thereafter, when 
neither the contract nor the deed had been 
recorded and while Owen remained in 
possession of Blackacre, Cred properly filed 
her money judgment against Owen. She knew 
nothing of Bryer’s interest. 
A statute in the jurisdiction provides: “Any 
judgment properly filed shall, for ten years 
from filing, be a lien on the real property then 
owned or subsequently acquired by any person 
against whom the judgment is rendered.” 
The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: 
“No conveyance or mortgage of real property 
shall be good against subsequent purchasers 
for value and without notice unless the same 
be recorded according to law.” 
Cred brought an appropriate action to enforce 
her lien against Blackacre in Bryer’s hands. 
If the court decides for Bryer, it will most 
probably be because 
(A)		 the doctrine of equitable conversion 
applies.
(B)		 the jurisdiction’s recording act does not 
protect creditors. 
(C)		 Owen’s possession gave Cred 
constructive notice of Bryer’s interest. 
(D)		 Bryer was a purchaser without notice. 

124. A written construction contract, under which 
Contractor agreed to build a new house for 
Owner at a fixed price of $200,000, contained 
the following provision: 
Prior to construction or during 
the course thereof, this contract 
may be modified by mutual 
agreement of the parties as to 
“extras” or other departures from
the plans and specifications 
provided by Owner and attached 
hereto. Such modifications, 
however, may be authorized only
in writing, signed by both 
parties. 
During construction, Contractor incorporated 
into the structure overhanging gargoyles and 
other “extras” orally requested by Owner for 
orally agreed prices in addition to the contract 
price. Owner subsequently refused to pay 
anything for such extras, aggregating $30,000 
at the agreed prices, solely on the ground that 
no written, signed authorization for them was 
ever effected. 
If Contractor sues Owner on account of the 
“extras,” which, if any, of the following will 
effectively support Owner’s defense? 
I.		 The parol evidence rule. 
II.		 The preexisting duty rule. 
III.		 Failure of an express condition. 
IV.		 The statute of frauds. 
(A)		 I and III only. 
(B)		 I and IV only. 
(C)		 II and IV only. 
(D)		 Neither I, II, III, nor IV. 
125. Scott held up a drugstore at 10:30 at night, and 
drove away. His car broke down in an isolated 
area just outside the small city in which the 
crime occurred. Scott walked to the nearest 
house and asked Henry, the homeowner, if he 
could stay until the next morning, explaining 
that he had been searching for his sister’s 
home and had run out of gas. Henry agreed 
to let him sleep on a couch in the basement. 
During the course of the night, Henry began to 
doubt the story Scott had told him. Early the 
next morning, Henry called the police and said 
he was suspicious and frightened of a stranger 
whom he had allowed to stay the night. The 
police went immediately to the house to assist 
Henry and walked through the open front 
door. They found Scott and Henry drinking 
coffee in the kitchen. When they saw Scott, 
they realized he matched the description of the 
drugstore robber. They arrested Scott and in 
his jacket they found drugs taken during the 
robbery. 
Scott moves to suppress the evidence of the 
drugs. 
If the court finds that the police did not have 
probable cause to believe Scott was the robber 
until they saw him inside Henry’s house and 
realized he matched the description, the court 
should 
(A)		 grant the motion, because, as a guest, 
Scott has sufficient standing to contest 
the entry of the house without a warrant. 
(B)		 grant the motion, because, as a guest, 
Scott has sufficient standing to contest 
the lack of probable cause at the time of 
the entry. 
(C)		 deny the motion, because Scott had no 
ownership or other possessory interest in 
the premises. 
(D)		 deny the motion, because the police had 
the permission of the owner to enter the 
house. 

126. Susan entered a guilty plea to a charge of 
embezzlement. Her attorney hired a retired 
probation officer as a consultant to gather 
information for the preparation of a sentencing 
plan for Susan that would avoid jail. For that 
purpose, the consultant interviewed Susan for 
three hours. 
Thereafter, the prosecution undertook an 
investigation of Susan’s possible involvement 
in other acts of embezzlement. The consultant 
was subpoenaed to testify before a grand 
jury. The consultant refused to answer any 
questions concerning her conversation with 
Susan. The prosecution has moved for an order 
requiring her to answer those questions. 
The motion should be 
(A)		 denied, on the basis of the attorney-client 
privilege.
(B)		 denied, in the absence of probable cause 
to believe the interview developed 
evidence relevant to the grand jury’s 
inquiry.
(C)		 granted, because the consultant is not an 
attorney.
(D)		 granted, because exclusionary 
evidentiary rules do not apply in grand 
jury proceedings. 
127. Agitator, a baseball fan, has a fierce temper 
and an extremely loud voice. Attending a 
baseball game in which a number of calls went 
against the home team, Agitator repeatedly 
stood up, brandished his fist, and angrily 
shouted, “Kill the umpires.” The fourth 
time he engaged in this conduct, many other 
spectators followed Agitator in rising from 
their seats, brandishing fists, and shouting, 
“Kill the umpires.” 
The home team lost the game. Although 
no violence ensued, spectators crowded 
menacingly around the umpires after the game. 
As a result, the umpires were able to leave 
the field and stadium only with the help of a 
massive police escort. 
For his conduct, Agitator was charged with 
inciting to riot and was convicted in a jury trial 
in state court. He appealed. The state supreme 
court reversed his conviction. In its opinion, 
the court discussed in detail decisions of the 
United States Supreme Court dealing with 
the First Amendment free speech clause as 
incorporated into the Fourteenth Amendment. 
At the end of that discussion, however, the 
court stated that it “need not resolve how, on 
the basis of these cases,” the United States 
Supreme Court would decide Agitator’s case. 
“Instead,” the court stated, “this court has 
always given the free-speech guarantee of 
the state’s constitution the broadest possible 
interpretation. As a result, we hold that in this 
case, where no riot or other violence actually 
occurred, the state constitution does not permit 
this conviction for incitement to riot to stand.” 
The United States Supreme Court grants a writ 
of certiorari to review this decision of the state 
supreme court. 
In this case, the United States Supreme Court 
should 
(A)		 affirm the state supreme court’s decision, 
because Agitator’s ballpark shout is 
commonplace hyperbole that cannot, 
consistently with the First and Fourteenth 
Amendments, be punished. 
(B)		 remand the case to the state supreme 
court with directions that it resolve the 
First and Fourteenth Amendment freespeech issue that it discussed in such 
detail. 
(C)		 dismiss the writ as improvidently 
granted, because the state supreme 
court’s decision rests on an independent 
and adequate state law ground. 
(D)		 reverse the decision of the state supreme 
court, because incitement to violent 
action is not speech protected by the First 
and Fourteenth Amendments. 
128. The day after Seller completed the sale of his 
house and moved out, one of the slates flew 
off the roof during a windstorm. The slate 
struck Pedestrian, who was on the public 
sidewalk. Pedestrian was seriously injured. 
The roof is old and has lost several slates in 
ordinary windstorms on other occasions. 
If Pedestrian sues Seller to recover damages 
for his injuries, will Pedestrian prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because the roof was defective 
when Seller sold the house. 
(B)		 Yes, if Seller should have been aware of 
the condition of the roof and should have 
realized that it was dangerous to persons 
outside the premises. 
(C)		 No, because Seller was neither the owner 
nor the occupier of the house when 
Pedestrian was injured. 
(D)		 No, if Pedestrian knew that in the past 
slates had blown off the roof during 
windstorms. 
Questions 129-130  
 
On April 1, Owner and Buyer signed a writing in 
which Owner, “in consideration of $100 to be paid 
to Owner by Buyer,” offered Buyer the right to 
purchase Greenacre for $100,000 within 30 days. 
The writing further provided, “This offer will 
become effective as an option only if and when 
the $100 consideration is in fact paid.” On April 
20, Owner, having received no payment or other 
communication from Buyer, sold and conveyed 
Greenacre to Citizen for $120,000. On April 21, 
Owner received a letter from Buyer enclosing a 
cashier’s check for $100 payable to Owner and 
stating, “I am hereby exercising my option to 
purchase Greenacre and am prepared to close 
whenever you’re ready.” 

129. Which of the following, if proved, best 
supports Buyer’s suit against Owner for 
breach of contract? 
(A)		 Buyer was unaware of the sale to Citizen 
when Owner received the letter and 
check from Buyer on April 21. 
(B)		 On April 15, Buyer decided to purchase 
Greenacre, and applied for and obtained 
a commitment from Bank for a $75,000 
loan to help finance the purchase. 
(C)		 When the April 1 writing was signed, 
Owner said to Buyer, “Don’t worry 
about the $100; the recital of ‘$100 to be 
paid’ makes this deal binding.” 
(D)		 Owner and Buyer are both professional 
dealers in real estate. 
130. For this question only, assume that, for 
whatever reason, Buyer prevails in the suit 
against Owner. 
Which of the following is Buyer entitled to 
recover? 
(A)		 Nominal damages only, because the 
remedy of specific performance was not 
available to Buyer. 
(B)		 The fair market value, if any, of an 
assignable option to purchase Greenacre 
for $100,000. 
(C)		 $20,000, plus the amount, if any, by 
which the fair market value of Greenacre 
on the date of Owner’s breach exceeded 
$120,000. 
(D)		 The amount, if any, by which the fair 
market value of Greenacre on the date of 
Owner’s breach exceeded $100,000. 

131. Alpha and Beta owned Greenacre, a large 
farm, in fee simple as tenants in common, 
each owning an undivided one-half interest. 
For five years Alpha occupied Greenacre and 
conducted farming operations. Alpha never 
accounted to Beta for any income but Alpha 
did pay all real estate taxes when the taxes 
were due and kept the buildings located on 
Greenacre insured against loss from fire, 
storm, and flood. Beta lived in a distant 
city and was interested only in realizing a 
profit from the sale of the land when market 
conditions produced the price Beta wanted. 
Alpha died intestate survived by Hera, 
Alpha’s sole heir. Thereafter Hera occupied 
Greenacre but was inexperienced in farming 
operations. The result was a financial disaster. 
Hera failed to pay real estate taxes for two 
years. The appropriate governmental authority 
held a tax sale to recover the taxes due. 
At such sale Beta was the only bidder and 
obtained a conveyance from the appropriate 
governmental authority upon payment of an 
amount sufficient to discharge the amounts 
due for taxes, plus interest and penalties, and 
the costs of holding the tax sale. The amount 
paid was one-third of the reasonable market 
value of Greenacre. 
Thereafter Beta instituted an appropriate 
action against Hera to quiet title in and to 
recover possession of Greenacre. Hera asserted 
all defenses available to Hera. 
Except for the statutes related to real estate 
taxes and tax sales, there is no applicable 
statute. 
In this lawsuit, Beta is entitled to a decree 
quieting title so that Beta is the sole owner in 
fee simple of Greenacre 
(A)		 because Beta survived Alpha. 
(B)		 because Hera defaulted in the obligations 
undertaken by Alpha. 
(C)		 unless Hera pays Beta one-half of the 
reasonable market value of Greenacre. 
(D)		 unless Hera pays Beta one-half of the 
amount Beta paid for the tax deed. 
132. Eighteen-year-old Kenneth and his 14-
year-old girlfriend, Emma, made plans to 
meet in Kenneth’s apartment to have sexual 
intercourse, and they did so. Emma later told 
her mother about the incident. Kenneth was 
charged with statutory rape and conspiracy to 
commit statutory rape. 
In the jurisdiction, the age of consent is 15, 
and the law of conspiracy is the same as at 
common law. 
Kenneth was convicted of both charges and 
given consecutive sentences. On appeal, he 
contends that his conspiracy conviction should 
be reversed. 
That conviction should be 
(A)		 affirmed, because he agreed with Emma 
to commit the crime. 
(B)		 reversed, because Emma could not be a 
conspirator to this crime. 
(C)		 reversed, because the crime is one that 
can only be committed by agreement 
and thus Wharton’s Rule bars conspiracy 
liability.
(D)		 reversed, because one cannot conspire 
with a person too young to consent. 

133. Sam decided to kill his boss, Anna, after 
she told him that he would be fired if his 
work did not improve. Sam knew Anna was 
scheduled to go on a business trip on Monday 
morning. On Sunday morning, Sam went to 
the company parking garage and put a bomb 
in the company car that Anna usually drove. 
The bomb was wired to go off when the car 
engine started. Sam then left town. At 5 a.m. 
Monday, Sam, after driving all night, was 
overcome with remorse and had a change 
of heart. He called the security officer on 
duty at the company and told him about the 
bomb. The security officer said he would take 
care of the matter. An hour later, the officer 
put a note on Anna’s desk telling her of the 
message. He then looked at the car but could 
not see any signs of a bomb. He printed a sign 
saying “DO NOT USE THIS CAR,” put it on 
the windshield, and went to call the police. 
Before the police arrived, Lois, a company 
vice president, got into the car and started the 
engine. The bomb went off, killing her. 
The jurisdiction defines murder in the first 
degree as any homicide committed with 
premeditation and deliberation or any murder 
in the commission of a common-law felony. 
Second-degree murder is defined as all other 
murder at common law. Manslaughter is 
defined by the common law. 
Sam is guilty of 
(A)		 murder in the first degree, because, with 
premeditation and deliberation, he killed 
whoever would start the car. 
(B)		 murder in the second degree, because he 
had no intention of killing Lois. 
(C)		 manslaughter, because at the time of the 
explosion, he had no intent to kill, and 
the death of Lois was in part the fault of 
the security officer. 
(D)		 only attempted murder of Anna, because 
the death of Lois was the result of the 
security officer’s negligence. 
134. The state of Green imposes a tax on the 
“income” of each of its residents. As defined 
in the taxing statute, “income” includes the 
fair rental value of the use of any automobile 
provided by the taxpayer’s employer for 
the taxpayer’s personal use. The federal 
government supplies automobiles to some of 
its employees who are resident in Green so 
that they may perform their jobs properly. A 
federal government employee supplied with an 
automobile for this purpose may also use it for 
the employee’s own personal business. 
Assume there is no federal legislation on this 
subject. 
May the state of Green collect this tax on 
the fair rental value of the personal use of 
the automobiles furnished by the federal 
government to these employees? 
(A)		 No, because such a tax would be a tax on 
the United States. 
(B)		 No, because such a tax would be a tax 
upon activities performed on behalf of 
the United States, since the automobiles 
are primarily used by these federal 
employees in the discharge of their 
official duties. 
(C)		 Yes, because the tax is imposed on the 
employees rather than on the United 
States, and the tax does not discriminate 
against persons who are employed by the 
United States. 
(D)		 Yes, because an exemption from such 
state taxes for federal employees 
would be a denial to others of the equal 
protection of the laws. 

135. Orderly, a male attendant who worked at 
Hospital, had sexual relations with Patient, 
a severely retarded person, in her room at 
Hospital. 
In a tort action brought on Patient’s behalf 
against Hospital, Patient will 
(A)		 not prevail, if Orderly’s actions were 
outside the scope of his employment. 
(B)		 not prevail, if Patient initiated the 
relationship with Orderly and encouraged 
his actions. 
(C)		 prevail, if Orderly was an employee of 
Hospital.
(D)		 prevail, if Hospital failed to use 
reasonable care to protect Patient from 
such conduct. 
136. Passenger is suing Defendant for injuries 
suffered in the crash of a small airplane, 
alleging that Defendant had owned the plane 
and negligently failed to have it properly 
maintained. Defendant has asserted in defense 
that he never owned the plane or had any 
responsibility to maintain it. At trial, Passenger 
calls Witness to testify that Witness had sold 
to Defendant a liability insurance policy on the 
plane. 
The testimony of Witness is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because the policy itself 
is required under the original document 
rule. 
(B)		 inadmissible, because of the rule against 
proof of insurance where insurance is not 
itself at issue. 
(C)		 admissible to show that Defendant had 
little motivation to invest money in 
maintenance of the airplane. 
(D)		 admissible as some evidence 
of Defendant’s ownership of or 
responsibility for the airplane. 
137. Opal owned several vacant lots in ABC 
Subdivision. She obtained a $50,000 loan from 
a lender, Bank, and executed and delivered 
to Bank a promissory note and mortgage 
describing Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. The mortgage 
was promptly and properly recorded. 
Upon payment of $10,000, Opal obtained a 
release of Lot 2 duly executed by Bank. She 
altered the instrument of release to include 
Lot 5 as well as Lot 2 and recorded it. Opal 
thereafter sold Lot 5 to Eva, an innocent 
purchaser, for value. 
Bank discovered that the instrument of release 
had been altered and brought an appropriate 
action against Opal and Eva to set aside the 
release as it applied to Lot 5. Opal did not 
defend against the action, but Eva did. 
The recording act of the jurisdiction provides: 
“No unrecorded conveyance or mortgage of 
real property shall be good against subsequent 
purchasers for value without notice, who shall 
first record.” 
The court should rule for 
(A)		 Eva, because Bank was negligent in 
failing to check the recordation of the 
release. 
(B)		 Eva, because she was entitled to rely on 
the recorded release. 
(C)		 Bank, because Eva could have 
discovered the alteration by reasonable 
inquiry.
(D)		 Bank, because the alteration of the 
release was ineffective. 

Questions 138-139  
 
Jones, a marijuana farmer, had been missing for 
several months. The sheriff’s department received 
an anonymous tip that Miller, a rival marijuana 
farmer, had buried Jones in a hillside about 200 
yards from Miller’s farmhouse. Sheriff’s deputies 
went to Miller’s farm. They cut the barbed wire 
that surrounded the hillside and entered, looking for 
the grave. They also searched the adjacent fields 
on Miller’s farm that were within the area enclosed 
by the barbed wire and discovered clothing that 
belonged to Jones hanging on a scarecrow. Miller 
observed their discovery and began shooting. The 
deputies returned the fire. Miller dashed to his 
pickup truck to escape. Unable to start the truck, he 
fled across a field toward the barn. A deputy tackled 
him just as he entered the barn. 
As Miller attempted to get up, the deputy pinned his 
arms behind his back. Another deputy
threatened, “Tell us what you did with Jones or we 
will shut you down and see your family on relief.” 
Miller responded that he had killed Jones in a fight 
but did not report the incident because he did not 
want authorities to enter his land and discover his 
marijuana crop. Instead, he buried him behind the 
barn. Miller was thereafter charged with murder. 
138. If Miller moves to suppress his admission 
about killing his neighbor, the court should 
(A)		 grant the motion, because Miller did not 
voluntarily waive his right to silence. 
(B)		 grant the motion, because the statement 
was the product of the warrantless entry 
and search of Miller’s farm. 
(C)		 deny the motion, because the deputy was 
in hot pursuit when he questioned Miller. 
(D)		 deny the motion, because Miller was 
questioned during a police emergency 
search. 
139. If Miller moves to exclude the introduction 
of Jones’s clothing into evidence, the court 
should 
(A)		 grant the motion, because the deputies 
had not obtained a warrant. 
(B)		 grant the motion, because the deputies’ 
conduct in its entirety violated Miller’s 
right to due process of law. 
(C)		 deny the motion, because Miller had 
no expectation of privacy in the fields 
around his farmhouse. 
(D)		 deny the motion, because the clothing 
was not Miller’s property. 

140. Passenger departed on an ocean liner knowing 
that it would be a rough voyage due to 
predicted storms. The ocean liner was not 
equipped with the type of lifeboats required by 
the applicable statute. 
Passenger was swept overboard and drowned 
in a storm so heavy that even a lifeboat that 
conformed to the statute could not have been 
launched. 
In an action against the operator of the ocean 
liner brought by Passenger’s representative, 
will Passenger’s representative prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because the ocean liner was not 
equipped with the statutorily required 
lifeboats. 
(B)		 Yes, because in these circumstances 
common carriers are strictly liable. 
(C)		 No, because the storm was so severe that 
it would have been impossible to launch 
a statutorily required lifeboat. 
(D)		 No, because Passenger assumed the risk 
by boarding the ocean liner knowing that 
it would be a rough voyage. 
141. The King City zoning ordinance contains 
provisions restricting places of “adult 
entertainment” to two specified city blocks 
within the commercial center of the city. 
These provisions of the ordinance define 
“adult entertainment” as “live or filmed nudity 
or sexual activity, real or simulated, of an 
indecent nature.” 
Sam proposes to operate an adult 
entertainment establishment outside the twoblock area zoned for such establishments but 
within the commercial center of King City. 
When his application for permission to do so 
is rejected solely because it is inconsistent 
with provisions of the zoning ordinance, 
he sues the appropriate officials of King 
City, seeking to enjoin them from enforcing 
the adult entertainment provisions of the 
ordinance against him. He asserts that these 
provisions of the ordinance violate the First 
Amendment as made applicable to King City 
by the Fourteenth Amendment. 
In this case, the court hearing Sam’s request 
for an injunction would probably hold that 
the adult entertainment provisions of the King 
City zoning ordinance are 
(A)		 constitutional, because they do not 
prohibit adult entertainment everywhere 
in King City, and the city has a 
substantial interest in keeping the major 
part of its commercial center free of uses 
it considers harmful to that area. 
(B)		 constitutional, because adult 
entertainment of the kind described 
in these provisions of the King City 
ordinance is not protected by the free 
speech guarantee of the First and 
Fourteenth Amendments. 
(C)		 unconstitutional, because they prohibit 
in the commercial area of the city adult 
entertainment that is not “obscene” 
within the meaning of the First and 
Fourteenth Amendments. 
(D)		 unconstitutional, because zoning 
ordinances that restrict freedom of 
speech may be justified only by a 
substantial interest in preserving the 
quality of a community’s residential 
neighborhoods. 

Questions 142-143  
 
On June 1, Seller and Buyer contracted in writing 
for the sale and purchase of Seller’s cattle ranch (a 
large single tract), and to close the transaction on 
December 1. 
142. For this question only, assume the following 
facts. On October 1, Buyer told Seller, “I’m 
increasingly unhappy about our June 1 
contract because of the current cattle market, 
and do not intend to buy your ranch unless I’m 
legally obligated to do so.” 
If Seller sues Buyer on October 15 for breach 
of contract, Seller will probably 
(A)		 win, because Buyer committed a total 
breach by anticipatory repudiation on 
October 1. 
(B)		 win, because Buyer’s October 1 
statement created reasonable grounds 
for Seller’s insecurity with respect to 
Buyer’s performance. 
(C)		 lose, because the parties contracted for 
the sale and conveyance of a single tract, 
and Seller cannot bring suit for breach 
of such a contract prior to the agreed 
closing date. 
(D)		 lose, because Buyer’s October 1 
statement to Seller was neither a 
repudiation nor a present breach of the 
June 1 contract. 
143. For this question only, assume the following 
facts. Buyer unequivocally repudiated the 
contract on August 1. On August 15, Seller 
urged Buyer to change her mind and proceed 
with the scheduled closing on December 1. 
On October 1, having heard nothing further 
from Buyer, Seller sold and conveyed his 
ranch to Rancher without notice to Buyer. 
On December 1, Buyer attempted to close 
under the June 1 contract by tendering the full 
purchase price to Seller. Seller rejected the 
tender. 
If Buyer sues Seller for breach of contract, 
Buyer will probably 
(A)		 win, because Seller failed seasonably 
to notify Buyer of any pending sale to 
Rancher. 
(B)		 win, because Seller waived Buyer’s 
August 1 repudiation by urging her to 
retract it on August 15. 
(C)		 lose, because Buyer did not retract her 
repudiation before Seller materially 
changed his position in reliance thereon 
by selling the ranch to Rancher. 
(D)		 lose, because acceptance of the purchase 
price by Seller was a concurrent 
condition to Seller’s obligation to convey 
the ranch to Buyer on December 1. 

144. Owner owned a hotel, subject to a mortgage 
securing a debt Owner owed to Lender One. 
Owner later acquired a nearby parking garage, 
financing a part of the purchase price by a 
loan from Lender Two, secured by a mortgage 
on the parking garage. Two years thereafter, 
Owner defaulted on the loan owed to Lender 
One, which caused the full amount of that 
loan to become immediately due and payable. 
Lender One decided not to foreclose the 
mortgage on Owner’s hotel at that time, but 
instead brought an action, appropriate under 
the laws of the jurisdiction and authorized 
by the mortgage loan documents, for the full 
amount of the defaulted loan. Lender One 
obtained and properly filed a judgment for that 
amount. 
A statute of the jurisdiction provides: “Any 
judgment properly filed shall, for ten years 
from filing, be a lien on the real property then 
owned or subsequently acquired by any person 
against whom the judgment is rendered.” 
There is no other applicable statute, except 
the statute providing for judicial foreclosure 
of mortgages, which places no restriction on 
deficiency judgments. 
Lender One later brought an appropriate 
action for judicial foreclosure of its first 
mortgage on the hotel and of its judgment 
lien on the parking garage. Lender Two was 
joined as a party defendant, and appropriately 
counterclaimed for foreclosure of its mortgage 
on the parking garage, which was also in 
default. All procedures were properly followed 
and the confirmed foreclosure sales resulted as 
follows: 
Lender One purchased the hotel for $100,000 
less than its mortgage balance. 
Lender One purchased the parking garage 
for an amount that is $200,000 in excess of 
Lender Two’s mortgage balance. 
The $200,000 surplus arising from the bid paid 
by Lender One for the parking garage should 
be paid 
(A)		 $100,000 to Lender One and $100,000 to 
Owner. 
(B)		 $100,000 to Lender Two and $100,000 
to Owner. 
(C)		 $100,000 to Lender One and $100,000 to 
Lender Two. 
(D)		 $200,000 to Owner. 

145. Kontractor agreed to build a power plant for 
a public utility. Subbo agreed with Kontractor 
to lay the foundation for $200,000. Subbo 
supplied goods and services worth $150,000, 
for which Kontractor made progress payments 
aggregating $100,000 as required by the 
subcontract. Subbo then breached by refusing 
unjustifiably to perform further. Kontractor 
reasonably spent $120,000 to have the work 
completed by another subcontractor. 
Subbo sues Kontractor for the reasonable 
value of benefits conferred, and Kontractor 
counterclaims for breach of contract. 
Which of the following should be the court’s 
decision? 
(A)		 Subbo recovers $50,000, the benefit 
conferred on Kontractor for which Subbo 
has not been paid. 
(B)		 Subbo recovers $30,000, the benefit 
Subbo conferred on Kontractor minus 
the $20,000 in damages incurred by 
Kontractor. 
(C)		 Kontractor recovers $20,000, the excess 
over the contract price that was paid by 
Kontractor for the performance it had 
bargained to receive from Subbo. 
(D)		 Neither party recovers anything, because 
Subbo committed a material, unexcused 
breach and Kontractor received a 
$50,000 benefit from Subbo for which 
Subbo has not been paid. 
146. The Rapido is a sports car manufactured by 
the Rapido Motor Co. The Rapido has an 
excellent reputation for mechanical reliability 
with one exception, that the motor may stall if 
the engine has not had an extended warm-up. 
Driver had just begun to drive her Rapido in 
city traffic without a warm-up when the engine 
suddenly stalled. A car driven by Troody rearended Driver’s car. Driver suffered no external 
physical injuries as a result of the collision. 
However, the shock of the crash caused her to 
suffer a severe heart attack. 
Driver brought an action against the Rapido 
Motor Co. based on strict liability in tort. 
During the trial, the plaintiff presented 
evidence of an alternative engine design of 
equal cost that would eliminate the stalling 
problem without impairing the functions of the 
engine in any way. The defendant moves for a 
directed verdict at the close of the evidence. 
This motion should be 
(A)		 denied, because the jury could find that 
an unreasonably dangerous defect in 
the engine was a proximate cause of the 
collision. 
(B)		 denied, if the jury could find that the 
Rapido was not crashworthy. 
(C)		 granted, because Troody’s failure to stop 
within an assured clear distance was a 
superseding cause of the collision. 
(D)		 granted, if a person of normal sensitivity 
would not have suffered a heart attack 
under these circumstances. 

147. Pedestrian died from injuries caused when 
Driver’s car struck him. Executor, Pedestrian’s 
executor, sued Driver for wrongful death. At 
trial, Executor calls Nurse to testify that two 
days after the accident, Pedestrian said to 
Nurse, “The car that hit me ran the red light.” 
Fifteen minutes thereafter, Pedestrian died. 
As a foundation for introducing evidence of 
Pedestrian’s statement, Executor offers to the 
court Doctor’s affidavit that Doctor was the 
intern on duty the day of Pedestrian’s death 
and that several times that day Pedestrian had 
said that he knew he was about to die. 
Is the affidavit properly considered by 
the court in ruling on the admissibility of 
Pedestrian’s statement? 
(A)		 No, because it is hearsay not within any 
exception.
(B)		 No, because it is irrelevant since dying 
declarations cannot be used except in 
prosecutions for homicide. 
(C)		 Yes, because, though hearsay, it is 
a statement of then-existing mental 
condition. 
(D)		 Yes, because the judge may consider 
hearsay in ruling on preliminary 
questions. 
148. John is a licensed barber in State A. The State 
A barber licensing statute provides that the 
Barber Licensing Board may revoke a barber 
license if it finds that a licensee has used his 
or her business premises for an illegal purpose. 
John was arrested by federal narcotics 
enforcement agents on a charge of selling 
cocaine in his barbershop in violation of 
federal laws. However, the local United States 
Attorney declined to prosecute and the charges 
were dropped. 
Nevertheless, the Barber Licensing Board 
commenced a proceeding against John to 
revoke his license on the ground that John 
used his business premises for illegal sales of 
cocaine. At a subsequent hearing before the 
board, the only evidence against John was 
affidavits by unnamed informants, who were 
not present or available for cross-examination. 
Their affidavits stated that they purchased 
cocaine from John in his barbershop. Based 
solely on this evidence, the board found that 
John used his business premises for an illegal 
purpose and ordered his license revoked. 
In a suit by John to have this revocation set 
aside, his best constitutional argument is that 
(A)		 John’s inability to cross-examine his 
accusers denied him a fair hearing and 
caused him to be deprived of his barber 
license without due process of law. 
(B)		 the administrative license revocation 
proceeding was invalid, because it denied 
full faith and credit to the dismissal of 
the criminal charges by the United States 
Attorney.
(C)		 Article III requires a penalty of the 
kind imposed on John to be imposed 
by a court rather than an administrative 
agency.
(D)		 the existence of federal laws penalizing 
the illegal sale of cocaine preempts state 
action relating to drug trafficking of the 
kind involved in John’s case. 

149. Driver was driving his car near Owner’s house 
when Owner’s child darted into the street in 
front of Driver’s car. As Driver swerved and 
braked his car to avoid hitting the child, the 
car skidded up into Owner’s driveway and 
stopped just short of Owner, who was standing 
in the driveway and had witnessed the entire 
incident. Owner suffered serious emotional 
distress from witnessing the danger to his child 
and to himself. Neither Owner nor his property 
was physically harmed. 
If Owner asserts a claim for damages against 
Driver, will Owner prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because Driver’s entry onto 
Owner’s land was unauthorized. 
(B)		 Yes, because Owner suffered serious 
emotional distress by witnessing the 
danger to his child and to himself. 
(C)		 No, unless Driver was negligent. 
(D)		 No, unless Owner’s child was exercising 
reasonable care. 
150. Vendor owned Greenacre, a tract of land, 
in fee simple. Vendor entered into a valid 
written agreement with Purchaser under which 
Vendor agreed to sell and Purchaser agreed to 
buy Greenacre by installment purchase. The 
contract stipulated that Vendor would deliver 
to Purchaser, upon the payment of the last 
installment due, “a warranty deed sufficient to 
convey the fee simple.” The contract contained 
no other provision that could be construed as 
referring to title. 
Purchaser entered into possession of 
Greenacre. After making 10 of the 300 
installment payments obligated under the 
contract, Purchaser discovered that there was 
outstanding a valid and enforceable mortgage 
on Greenacre, securing the payment of a debt 
in the amount of 25% of the purchase price 
Purchaser had agreed to pay. There was no 
evidence that Vendor had ever been late in 
payments due under the mortgage and there 
was no evidence of any danger of insolvency 
of Vendor. The value of Greenacre now is four 
times the amount due on the debt secured by 
the mortgage. 
Purchaser quit possession of Greenacre and 
demanded that Vendor repay the amounts 
Purchaser had paid under the contract. After 
Vendor refused the demand, Purchaser brought 
an appropriate action against Vendor to 
recover damages for Vendor’s alleged breach 
of the contract. 
In such action, should damages be awarded to 
Purchaser? 
(A)		 No, because the time for Vendor to 
deliver marketable title has not arrived. 
(B)		 No, because Purchaser assumed the risk 
by taking possession. 
(C)		 Yes, because in the absence of a contrary 
express agreement, an obligation to 
convey marketable title is implied. 
(D)		 Yes, because the risk of loss assumed by 
Purchaser in taking possession relates 
only to physical loss. 

151. The state of Red sent three of its employees 
to a city located in the state of Blue to consult 
with a chemical laboratory there about matters 
of state business. While in the course of their 
employment, the three employees of Red 
negligently released into local Blue waterways 
some of the chemical samples they had 
received from the laboratory in Blue. 
Persons in Blue injured by the release of the 
chemicals sued the three Red state employees 
and the state of Red in Blue state courts 
for the damages they suffered. After a trial 
in which all of the defendants admitted 
jurisdiction of the Blue state court and fully 
participated, plaintiffs received a judgment 
against all of the defendants for $5 million, 
which became final. 
Subsequently, plaintiffs sought to enforce their 
Blue state court judgment by commencing a 
proper proceeding in an appropriate court of 
Red. In that enforcement proceeding, the state 
of Red argued, as it had done unsuccessfully 
in the earlier action in Blue state court, that 
its liability is limited by a law of Red to 
$100,000 in any tort case. Because the three 
individual employees of Red are able to pay 
only $50,000 of the judgment, the only way 
the injured persons can fully satisfy their Blue 
state court judgment is from the funds of the 
state of Red. 
Can the injured persons recover the full 
balance of their Blue state court judgment 
from the state of Red in the enforcement 
proceeding they filed in a court of Red? 
(A)		 Yes, because the final judgment of the 
Blue court is entitled to full faith and 
credit in the courts of Red. 
(B)		 Yes, because a limitation on damage 
awards against Red for tortious actions 
of its agents would violate the equal 
protection clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment. 
(C)		 No, because the Tenth Amendment 
preserves the right of a state to have its 
courts enforce the state’s public policy 
limiting its tort liability. 
(D)		 No, because the employees of Red were 
negligent and, therefore, their actions 
were not authorized by the state of Red. 
152. Martha’s high school teacher told her that she 
was going to receive a failing grade in history, 
which would prevent her from graduating. 
Furious, she reported to the principal that the 
teacher had fondled her, and the teacher was 
fired. A year later, still unable to get work 
because of the scandal, the teacher committed 
suicide. Martha, remorseful, confessed that her 
accusation had been false. 
If Martha is charged with manslaughter, her 
best defense would be that she 
(A)		 committed no act that proximately 
caused the teacher’s death. 
(B)		 did not intend to cause the teacher’s 
death. 
(C)		 did not act with malice. 
(D)		 acted under extreme emotional distress. 
153. Plaintiff sued Defendant for personal injuries 
arising out of an automobile accident. 
Which of the following would be ERROR? 
(A)		 The judge allows Defendant’s attorney 
to ask Defendant questions on crossexamination that go well beyond the 
scope of direct examination by Plaintiff, 
who has been called as an adverse 
witness. 
(B)		 The judge refuses to allow Defendant’s 
attorney to cross-examine Defendant by 
leading questions. 
(C)		 The judge allows cross-examination 
about the credibility of a witness even 
though no question relating to credibility 
has been asked on direct examination. 
(D)		 The judge, despite Defendant’s request 
for exclusion of witnesses, allows 
Plaintiff’s eyewitness to remain in the 
courtroom after testifying, even though 
the eyewitness is expected to be recalled 
for further cross-examination. 

154. Phil is suing Dennis for injuries suffered in 
an automobile collision. At trial Phil’s first 
witness, Wanda, testified that, although she 
did not see the accident, she heard her friend 
Frank say just before the crash, “Look at the 
crazy way old Dennis is driving!” Dennis 
offers evidence to impeach Frank by asking 
Wanda, “Isn’t it true that Frank beat up Dennis 
just the day before the collision?” 
The question is 
(A)		 proper, because it tends to show the 
possible bias of Frank against Dennis. 
(B)		 proper, because it tends to show Frank’s 
character. 
(C)		 improper, because Frank has no 
opportunity to explain or deny. 
(D)		 improper, because impeachment cannot 
properly be by specific instances. 
155. Thirty years ago Able, the then-record owner 
of Greenacre, a lot contiguous to Blueacre, in 
fee simple, executed and delivered to Baker an 
instrument in writing which was denominated 
“Deed of Conveyance.” In pertinent part it 
read, “Able does grant to Baker and her heirs 
and assigns a right-of-way for egress and 
ingress to Blueacre.” If the quoted provision 
was sufficient to create an interest in land, 
the instrument met all other requirements for 
a valid grant. Baker held record title in fee 
simple to Blueacre, which adjoined Greenacre. 
Twelve years ago Charlie succeeded to Able’s 
title in fee simple in Greenacre and seven 
years ago Dorcas succeeded to Baker’s title in 
fee simple in Blueacre by a deed which made 
no mention of a right-of-way or driveway. 
At the time Dorcas took title, there existed 
a driveway across Greenacre which showed 
evidence that it had been used regularly to 
travel between Main Road, a public road, and 
Blueacre. Blueacre did have frontage on Side 
Road, another public road, but this means 
of access was seldom used because it was 
not as convenient to the dwelling situated on 
Blueacre as was Main Road. The driveway 
originally was established by Baker.
Dorcas has regularly used the driveway since 
acquiring title. The period of time required 
to acquire rights by prescription in the 
jurisdiction is ten years. 
Six months ago Charlie notified Dorcas 
that Charlie planned to develop a portion of 
Greenacre as a residential subdivision and that 
Dorcas should cease any use of the driveway. 
After some negotiations, Charlie offered to 
permit Dorcas to construct another driveway 
to connect with the streets of the proposed 
subdivision. Dorcas declined this offer on the 
ground that travel from Blueacre to Main Road 
would be more circuitous. 
Dorcas brought an appropriate action against 
Charlie to obtain a definitive adjudication of 
the respective rights of Dorcas and Charlie. In 
such lawsuit Charlie relied upon the defense 
that the location of the easement created by 
the grant from Able to Baker was governed 
by reasonableness and that Charlie’s proposed 
solution was reasonable. 
Charlie’s defense should 
(A)		 fail, because the location had been 
established by the acts of Baker and 
Able. 
(B)		 fail, because the location of the easement 
had been fixed by prescription. 
(C)		 prevail, because the reasonableness 
of Charlie’s proposal was established 
by Dorcas’s refusal to suggest any 
alternative location. 
(D)		 prevail, because the servient owner is 
entitled to select the location of a rightof-way if the grant fails to identify its 
location. 

Questions 156-157  
 
Computers, Inc., contracted in writing with Bank 
to sell and deliver to Bank a mainframe computer 
using a new type of magnetic memory, then under 
development but not perfected by Computers, at 
a price substantially lower than that of a similar 
computer using current technology. The contract’s 
delivery term was “F.O.B. Bank, on or before July 
31.” 
156. For this question only, assume that Computers 
tendered the computer to Bank on August 15, 
and that Bank rejected it because of the delay. 
If Computers sues Bank for breach of contract, 
which of the following facts, if proved, will 
best support a recovery by Computers? 
(A)		 The delay did not materially harm Bank. 
(B)		 Computers believed, on the assumption 
that Bank was getting a “super deal” for 
its money, that Bank would not reject 
because of the late tender of delivery. 
(C)		 Computers’ delay in tender was caused 
by a truckers’ strike. 
(D)		 A usage in the relevant trade allows 
computer sellers a 30-day leeway in 
a specified time of delivery, unless 
the usage is expressly negated by the 
contract. 
157. For this question only, assume the following 
facts. After making the contract with Bank, 
Computers discovered that the new technology 
it intended to use was unreliable and that 
no computer manufacturer could yet build 
a reliable computer using that technology. 
Computers thereupon notified Bank that it 
was impossible for Computers or anyone else 
to build the contracted-for computer “in the 
present state of the art.” 
If Bank sues Computers for failure to perform 
its computer contract, the court will probably 
decide the case in favor of 
(A)		 Computers, because its performance of 
the contract was objectively impossible. 
(B)		 Computers, because a contract to build 
a machine using technology under 
development imposes only a duty on the 
builder to use its best efforts to achieve 
the result contracted for. 
(C)		 Bank, because the law of impossibility 
does not apply to merchants under the 
applicable law. 
(D)		 Bank, because Computers assumed the 
risk, in the given circumstances, that 
the projected new technology would not 
work reliably. 
158. Defendant was charged with attempted 
murder of Victor in a sniping incident in 
which Defendant allegedly shot at Victor 
from ambush as Victor drove his car along an 
expressway. The prosecutor offers evidence 
that seven years earlier Defendant had fired 
a shotgun into a woman’s home and that 
Defendant had once pointed a handgun at 
another driver while driving on the street. 
This evidence should be 
(A)		 excluded, because such evidence can be 
elicited only during cross-examination. 
(B)		 excluded, because it is improper 
character evidence. 
(C)		 admitted as evidence of Defendant’s 
propensity toward violence. 
(D)		 admitted as relevant evidence of 
Defendant’s identity, plan, or motive. 

159. Art, who owned Blackacre in fee simple, 
conveyed Blackacre to Bea by warranty deed. 
Celia, an adjoining owner, asserted title to 
Blackacre and brought an appropriate action 
against Bea to quiet title to Blackacre. Bea 
demanded that Art defend Bea’s title under the 
deed’s covenant of warranty, but Art refused. 
Bea then successfully defended at her own 
expense. 
Bea brought an appropriate action against 
Art to recover Bea’s expenses incurred in 
defending against Celia’s action to quiet title 
to Blackacre. 
In this action, the court should decide for 
(A)		 Bea, because in effect it was Art’s title 
that was challenged. 
(B)		 Bea, because Art’s deed to her included 
the covenant of warranty. 
(C)		 Art, because the title Art conveyed was 
not defective. 
(D)		 Art, because Celia may elect which of 
Art or Bea to sue. 
160. Alex contracted for expensive cable television 
service for a period of six months solely to 
view the televised trial of Clark, who was 
on trial for murder in a court of the state of 
Green. 
In the midst of the trial, the judge prohibited 
any further televising of Clark’s trial because 
he concluded that the presence of television 
cameras was disruptive. 
Alex brought an action in a federal district 
court against the judge in Clark’s case asking 
only for an injunction that would require the 
judge to resume the televising of Clark’s trial. 
Alex alleged that the judge’s order to stop 
the televising of Clark’s trial deprived him of 
property—his investment in cable television 
service—without due process of law. 
Before Alex’s case came to trial, Clark’s 
criminal trial concluded in a conviction and 
sentencing. There do not appear to be any 
obvious errors in the proceeding that led to the 
result in Clark’s case. After Clark’s conviction 
and sentencing, the defendant in Alex’s case 
moved to dismiss that suit. 
The most proper disposition of this motion by 
the federal court would be to 
(A)		 defer action on the motion until after any 
appellate proceedings in Clark’s case 
have concluded, because Clark might 
appeal, his conviction might be set aside, 
he might be tried again, and television 
cameras might be barred from the new 
trial. 
(B)		 defer action on the motion until after 
the Green Supreme Court expresses a 
view on its proper disposition, because 
the state law of mootness governs suits 
in federal court when the federal case 
is inexorably intertwined with a state 
proceeding.
(C)		 grant the motion, because the subject 
matter of the controversy between Alex 
and the defendant has ceased to exist and 
there is no strong likelihood that it will 
be revived. 
(D)		 deny the motion, because Alex has raised 
an important constitutional question—
whether his investment in cable service 
solely to view Clark’s trial is property 
protected by the due process clause of 
the Fourteenth Amendment. 

161. Traveler was a passenger on a commercial 
aircraft owned and operated by Airline. The 
aircraft crashed into a mountain, killing 
everyone on board. The flying weather was 
good. 
Traveler’s legal representative brought a 
wrongful death action against Airline. At trial, 
the legal representative offered no expert or 
other testimony as to the cause of the crash. 
On Airline’s motion to dismiss at the 
conclusion of the legal representative’s case, 
the court should 
(A)		 grant the motion, because the legal 
representative has offered no evidence as 
to the cause of the crash. 
(B)		 grant the motion, because the legal 
representative has failed to offer 
evidence negating the possibility that 
the crash may have been caused by 
mechanical failure that Airline could not 
have prevented. 
(C)		 deny the motion, because the jury may 
infer that the aircraft crashed due to 
Airline’s negligence. 
(D)		 deny the motion, because in the 
circumstances common carriers are 
strictly liable. 
162. Company wanted to expand the size of the 
building it owned that housed Company’s 
supermarket by adding space for a 
coffeehouse. Company’s building was located 
in the center of five acres of land owned by 
Company and devoted wholly to parking for 
its supermarket customers. 
City officials refused to grant a required 
building permit for the coffeehouse addition 
unless Company established in its store a child 
care center that would take up space at least 
equal to the size of the proposed coffeehouse 
addition, which was to be 20% of the existing 
building. This action of City officials was 
authorized by provisions of the applicable 
zoning ordinance. 
In a suit filed in state court against appropriate 
officials of City, Company challenged this 
child care center requirement solely on 
constitutional grounds. The lower court upheld 
the requirement even though City officials 
presented no evidence and made no findings 
to justify it other than a general assertion that 
there was a shortage of child care facilities in 
City. Company appealed. 
The court hearing the appeal should hold 
that the requirement imposed by City on the 
issuance of this building permit is 
(A)		 constitutional, because the burden was 
on Company to demonstrate that there 
was no rational relationship between 
this requirement and a legitimate 
governmental interest, and Company 
could not do so because the requirement 
is reasonably related to improving the 
lives of families and children residing in 
City.
(B)		 constitutional, because the burden 
was on Company to demonstrate that 
this requirement was not necessary to 
vindicate a compelling governmental 
interest, and Company could not do so 
on these facts. 
(C)		 unconstitutional, because the burden 
was on City to demonstrate that this 
requirement was necessary to vindicate 
a compelling governmental interest, and 
City failed to meet its burden under that 
standard. 
(D)		 unconstitutional, because the burden 
was on City to demonstrate a rough 
proportionality between this requirement 
and the impact of Company’s proposed 
action on the community, and City failed 
to do so. 

163. Ollie owned a large tract of land known 
as Peterhill. During Ollie’s lifetime, Ollie 
conveyed the easterly half (East Peterhill), 
situated in the municipality of Hawthorn, to 
Abel, and the westerly half (West Peterhill), 
situated in the municipality of Sycamore, to 
Betty. Each of the conveyances, which were 
promptly and properly recorded, contained the 
following language: 
The parties agree for themselves 
and their heirs and assigns that 
the premises herein conveyed 
shall be used only for residential 
purposes; that each lot created 
within the premises herein 
conveyed shall contain not less 
than five acres; and that each 
lot shall have not more than 
one single-family dwelling. 
This agreement shall bind all 
successor owners of all or any 
portion of Peterhill and any 
owner of any part of Peterhill 
may enforce this covenant. 
After Ollie’s death, Abel desired to build 
houses on one-half acre lots in the East 
Peterhill tract as authorized by current 
applicable zoning and building codes in 
Hawthorn. The area surrounding East 
Peterhill in Hawthorn was developed as a 
residential community with homes built on 
one-half acre lots. West Peterhill was in a 
residential area covered by the Sycamore 
zoning code, which allowed residential 
development only on five-acre tracts of land. 
In an appropriate action brought by Betty to 
enjoin Abel’s proposed construction on onehalf acre lots, the court will find the quoted 
restriction to be 
(A)		 invalid, because of the change of 
circumstance in the neighborhood. 
(B)		 invalid, because it conflicts with the 
applicable zoning code. 
(C)		 valid, but only so long as the original 
grantees from Ollie own their respective 
tracts of Peterhill. 
(D)		 valid, because the provision imposed an 
equitable servitude. 
164. At Defendant’s murder trial, Defendant 
calls Witness as his first witness to testify 
that Defendant has a reputation in their 
community as a peaceable and truthful 
person. The prosecutor objects on the ground 
that Witness’s testimony would constitute 
improper character evidence. 
The court should 
(A)		 admit the testimony as to peaceableness, 
but exclude the testimony as to 
truthfulness. 
(B)		 admit the testimony as to truthfulness, 
but exclude the testimony as to 
peaceableness.
(C)		 admit the testimony as to both character 
traits. 
(D)		 exclude the testimony as to both 
character traits. 

165. The governor of the state of Green proposes 
to place a Christmas nativity scene, the 
components of which would be permanently 
donated to the state by private citizens, in 
the Green Capitol Building rotunda where 
the Green Legislature meets annually. The 
governor further proposes to display this stateowned nativity scene annually from December 
1 to December 31, next to permanent displays 
that depict the various products manufactured 
in Green. The governor’s proposal is 
supported by all members of both houses of 
the legislature. 
If challenged in a lawsuit on establishment 
clause grounds, the proposed nativity scene 
display would be held 
(A)		 unconstitutional, because the components 
of the nativity scene would be owned by 
the state rather than by private persons. 
(B)		 unconstitutional, because the nativity 
scene would not be displayed in a 
context that appeared to depict and 
commemorate the Christmas season as a 
primarily secular holiday. 
(C)		 constitutional, because the components 
of the nativity scene would be donated 
to the state by private citizens rather than 
purchased with state funds. 
(D)		 constitutional, because the nativity scene 
would be displayed alongside an exhibit 
of various products manufactured in 
Green. 
166. Two police officers in uniform were on foot 
patrol in a neighborhood frequented by drug 
sellers. They saw Sandra, who, when she 
saw them, turned around and started to walk 
quickly away. The police ran after her and 
shouted, “Stop and don’t take another step, 
lady!” Sandra turned, looked at the police, and 
stopped. She put her arms up in the air. As the 
police approached, she threw a small object 
into nearby bushes. The police retrieved the 
object, which turned out to be a small bag of 
cocaine, and then arrested Sandra. 
Sandra is charged with possession of the 
cocaine. She moves pretrial to suppress its use 
as evidence on the ground that it was obtained 
as the result of an illegal search and seizure. 
Her motion should be 
(A)		 granted, because the police did not know 
the item was cocaine until after they had 
seized it. 
(B)		 granted, because the police acquired 
the cocaine as the result of an unlawful 
seizure. 
(C)		 denied, because the police had probable 
cause to seize the package. 
(D)		 denied, because Sandra voluntarily 
discarded the contraband. 

167. In a federal civil trial, Plaintiff wishes to 
establish that, in a state court, Defendant had 
been convicted of fraud, a fact that Defendant 
denies. 
Which mode of proof of the conviction is 
LEAST likely to be permitted? 
(A)		 A certified copy of the judgment 
of conviction, offered as a selfauthenticating document. 
(B)		 Testimony of Plaintiff, who was present 
at the time of the sentence. 
(C)		 Testimony by a witness to whom 
Defendant made an oral admission that 
he had been convicted. 
(D)		 Judicial notice of the conviction, based 
on the court’s telephone call to the clerk 
of the state court, whom the judge knows 
personally. 
168. Three years ago Adam conveyed Blackacre 
to Betty for $50,000 by a deed that provided: 
“By accepting this deed, Betty covenants 
for herself, her heirs and assigns, that the 
premises herein conveyed shall be used solely 
for residential purposes and, if the premises 
are used for nonresidential purposes, Adam, 
his heirs and assigns, shall have the right to 
repurchase the premises for the sum of one 
thousand dollars ($1,000).” In order to pay 
the $50,000 purchase price for Blackacre, 
Betty obtained a $35,000 mortgage loan from 
the bank. Adam had full knowledge of the 
mortgage transaction. The deed and mortgage 
were promptly and properly recorded in proper 
sequence. The mortgage, however, made no 
reference to the quoted language in the deed. 
Two years ago Betty converted her use of 
Blackacre from residential to commercial 
without the knowledge or consent of Adam or 
of the bank. Betty’s commercial venture failed, 
and Betty defaulted on her mortgage payments 
to the bank. Blackacre now has a fair market 
value of $25,000. 
The bank began appropriate foreclosure 
proceedings against Betty. Adam properly 
intervened, tendered $1,000, and sought 
judgment that Betty and the bank be ordered 
to convey Blackacre to Adam, free and clear 
of the mortgage. 
The common-law Rule Against Perpetuities is 
unmodified by statute. 
If the court rules against Adam, it will be 
because 
(A)		 the provision quoted from the deed 
violates the Rule Against Perpetuities. 
(B)		 the Bank had no actual knowledge of, 
and did not consent to, the violation of 
the covenant. 
(C)		 the rights reserved by Adam were 
subordinated, by necessary implication, 
to the rights of the bank as the lender of 
the purchase money. 
(D)		 the consideration of $1,000 was 
inadequate. 

169. Loyal, aged 60, who had no plans for early 
retirement, had worked for Mutate, Inc., for 20 
years as a managerial employee-at-will when 
he had a conversation with the company’s 
president, George Mutant, about Loyal’s postretirement goal of extensive travel around 
the United States. A month later, Mutant 
handed Loyal a written, signed resolution of 
the company’s Board of Directors stating that 
when and if Loyal should decide to retire, at 
his option, the company, in recognition of 
his past service, would pay him a $2,000-
per-month lifetime pension. (The company 
had no regularized retirement plan for atwill employees.) Shortly thereafter, Loyal 
retired and immediately bought a $30,000 
recreational vehicle for his planned travels. 
After receiving the promised $2,000 monthly 
pension from Mutate, Inc., for six months, 
Loyal, now unemployable elsewhere, received 
a letter from Mutate, Inc., advising him that 
the pension would cease immediately because 
of recessionary budget constraints affecting 
in varying degrees all managerial salaries and 
retirement pensions. 
In a suit against Mutate, Inc., for breach of 
contract, Loyal will probably 
(A)		 win, because he retired from the 
company as bargained-for consideration 
for the Board’s promise to him of a 
lifetime pension. 
(B)		 win, because he timed his decision to 
retire and to buy the recreational vehicle 
in reasonable reliance on the Board’s 
promise to him of a lifetime pension. 
(C)		 lose, because the Board’s promise 
to him of a lifetime pension was an 
unenforceable gift promise. 
(D)		 lose, because he had been an employeeat-will throughout his active service with 
the company. 
170. Congress wishes to enact legislation 
prohibiting discrimination in the sale or rental 
of housing on the basis of the affectional 
preference or sexual orientation of the 
potential purchaser or renter. Congress wishes 
this statute to apply to all public and private 
vendors and lessors of residential property 
in this country, with a few narrowly drawn 
exceptions. 
The most credible argument for congressional 
authority to enact such a statute would be 
based upon the 
(A)		 general welfare clause of Article I, 
Section 8, because the conduct the statute 
prohibits could reasonably be deemed to 
be harmful to the national interest. 
(B)		 commerce clause of Article I, Section 8, 
because, in inseverable aggregates, the 
sale or rental of almost all housing in 
this country could reasonably be deemed 
to have a substantial effect on interstate 
commerce. 
(C)		 enforcement clause of the Thirteenth 
Amendment, because that amendment 
clearly prohibits discrimination against 
the class of persons protected by this 
statute. 
(D)		 enforcement clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment, because that amendment 
prohibits all public and private 
actors from engaging in irrational 
discrimination. 

171. Because of Farmer’s default on his loan, the 
bank foreclosed on the farm and equipment 
that secured the loan. Among the items sold 
at the resulting auction was a new tractor 
recently delivered to Farmer by the retailer. 
Shortly after purchasing the tractor at the 
auction, Pratt was negligently operating the 
tractor on a hill when it rolled over due to a 
defect in the tractor’s design. He was injured 
as a result. Pratt sued the auctioneer, alleging 
strict liability in tort. The jurisdiction has 
not adopted a comparative fault rule in strict 
liability cases. 
In this suit, the result should be for the 
(A)		 plaintiff, because the defendant sold 
a defective product that injured the 
plaintiff.
(B)		 plaintiff, if the defendant failed to inspect 
the tractor for defects prior to sale. 
(C)		 defendant, because he should not be 
considered a “seller” for purposes of 
strict liability in tort. 
(D)		 defendant, because the accident was 
caused in part by Pratt’s negligence. 
172. In exchange for a valid and sufficient 
consideration, Goodbar orally promised 
Walker, who had no car and wanted a 
minivan, “to pay to anyone from whom you 
buy a minivan within the next six months the 
full purchase-price thereof.” Two months later, 
Walker bought a used minivan on credit from 
Minivanity Fair, Inc., for $8,000. At the time, 
Minivanity Fair was unaware of Goodbar’s 
earlier promise to Walker, but learned of it 
shortly after the sale. 
Can Minivanity Fair enforce Goodbar’s 
promise to Walker? 
(A)		 Yes, under the doctrine of promissory 
estoppel.
(B)		 Yes, because Minivanity Fair is an 
intended beneficiary of the GoodbarWalker contract. 
(C)		 No, because Goodbar’s promise to 
Walker is unenforceable under the 
suretyship clause of the statute of frauds. 
(D)		 No, because Minivanity Fair was neither 
identified when Goodbar’s promise was 
made nor aware of it when the minivansale was made. 

173. Plaintiff sued Defendant for injuries 
sustained in an automobile collision. During 
Plaintiff’s hospital stay, Doctor, a staff 
physician, examined Plaintiff’s X rays and 
said to Plaintiff, “You have a fracture of 
two vertebrae, C4 and C5.” Intern, who 
was accompanying Doctor on her rounds, 
immediately wrote the diagnosis on Plaintiff’s 
hospital record. At trial, the hospital records 
custodian testifies that Plaintiff’s hospital 
record was made and kept in the ordinary 
course of the hospital’s business. 
The entry reporting Doctor’s diagnosis is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because no foundation has 
been laid for Doctor’s competence as an 
expert.
(B)		 inadmissible, because Doctor’s opinion 
is based upon data that are not in 
evidence. 
(C)		 admissible as a statement of then existing 
physical condition. 
(D)		 admissible as a record of regularly 
conducted business activity. 
174. A city owns and operates a large public 
auditorium. It leases the auditorium to any 
group that wishes to use it for a meeting, 
lecture, concert, or contest. Each user must 
post a damage deposit and pay rent, which is 
calculated only for the actual time the building 
is used by the lessee. Reservations are made 
on a first-come, first-served basis. 
A private organization that permits only 
males to serve in its highest offices rented the 
auditorium for its national convention. The 
organization planned to install its new officers 
at that convention. It broadly publicized the 
event, inviting members of the general public 
to attend the installation ceremony at the city 
auditorium. No statute or administrative rule 
prohibits the organization from restricting its 
highest offices to men. 
An appropriate plaintiff sues the private 
organization seeking to enjoin it from using 
the city auditorium for the installation of its 
new officers. The sole claim of the plaintiff 
is that the use of this auditorium by the 
organization for the installation ceremony 
is unconstitutional because the organization 
disqualifies women from serving in its highest 
offices. 
Will the plaintiff prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because the Fourteenth Amendment 
prohibits such an organization from 
discriminating against women in any 
of its activities to which it has invited 
members of the general public. 
(B)		 Yes, because the organization’s use 
of the city auditorium for this purpose 
subjects its conduct to the provisions of 
the Fourteenth Amendment. 
(C)		 No, because the freedom of association 
protected by the Fourteenth Amendment 
prohibits the city from interfering in any 
way with the organization’s use of city 
facilities. 
(D)		 No, because this organization is not a 
state actor and, therefore, its activities 
are not subject to the provisions of the 
Fourteenth Amendment. 

175. Adam owns Townacres in fee simple, and 
Bess owns the adjoining Greenacres in fee 
simple. Adam has kept the lawns and trees on 
Townacres trimmed and neat. Bess “lets nature 
take its course” at Greenacres. The result on 
Greenacres is a tangle of underbrush, fallen 
trees, and standing trees that are in danger of 
losing limbs. Many of the trees on Greenacres 
are near Townacres. In the past, debris and 
large limbs have been blown from Greenacres 
onto Townacres. By local standards 
Greenacres is an eyesore that depresses market 
values of real property in the vicinity, but the 
condition of Greenacres violates no applicable 
laws or ordinances. 
Adam demanded that Bess keep the trees near 
Townacres trimmed. Bess refused. 
Adam brought an appropriate action against 
Bess to require Bess to abate what Adam 
alleges to be a nuisance. In the lawsuit, 
the only issue is whether the condition of 
Greenacres constitutes a nuisance. 
The strongest argument that Adam can present 
is that the condition of Greenacres 
(A)		 has an adverse impact on real estate 
values. 
(B)		 poses a danger to the occupants of 
Townacres. 
(C)		 violates community aesthetic standards. 
(D)		 cannot otherwise be challenged under 
any law or ordinance. 
176. Breeder bought a two-month-old registered 
boar at auction from Pigstyle for $800. No 
express warranty was made. Fifteen months 
later, tests by experts proved conclusively that 
the boar had been born incurably sterile. If 
this had been known at the time of the sale, 
the boar would have been worth no more than 
$100. 
In an action by Breeder against Pigstyle to 
avoid the contract and recover the price paid, 
the parties stipulate that, as both were and had 
been aware, the minimum age at which the 
fertility of a boar can be determined is about 
12 months. 
Which of the following will the court probably 
decide? 
(A)		 Breeder wins, because the parties were 
mutually mistaken as to the boar’s 
fertility when they made the agreement. 
(B)		 Breeder wins, because Pigstyle impliedly 
warranted that the boar was fit for 
breeding.
(C)		 Pigstyle wins, because Breeder assumed 
the risk of the boar’s sterility. 
(D)		 Pigstyle wins, because any mistake 
involved was unilateral, not mutual. 

177. Homeowner owns a house on a lake. Neighbor 
owns a house across a driveway from 
Homeowner’s property. Neighbor’s house sits 
on a hill and Neighbor can see the lake from 
his living room window. 
Homeowner and Neighbor got into an 
argument and Homeowner erected a large 
spotlight on his property that automatically 
comes on at dusk and goes off at sunrise. The 
only reason Homeowner installed the light was 
to annoy Neighbor. The glare from the light 
severely detracts from Neighbor’s view of the 
lake. 
In a suit by Neighbor against Homeowner, will 
Neighbor prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, because Homeowner installed the 
light solely to annoy Neighbor. 
(B)		 Yes, if, and only if, Neighbor’s property 
value is adversely affected. 
(C)		 No, because Neighbor’s view of the lake 
is not always obstructed. 
(D)		 No, if the spotlight provides added 
security to Homeowner’s property. 
178. On May 1, 1987, a car driven by Debra 
struck Peggy, a pedestrian. On July 1, 1987, 
with regard to this incident, Debra pleaded 
guilty to reckless driving (a misdemeanor) 
and was sentenced to 30 days in jail and a 
fine of $1,000. She served the sentence and 
paid the fine. On April 1, 1988, Peggy died 
as a result of the injuries she suffered in the 
accident. On March 1, 1991, a grand jury 
indicted Debra on a charge of manslaughter 
of Peggy. On May 15, 1991, trial had not 
begun and Debra filed a motion to dismiss the 
indictment on the ground of double jeopardy 
in that her conviction of reckless driving arose 
out of the same incident, and on the ground 
that the three-year statute of limitations for 
manslaughter had run. 
Debra’s motion should be 
(A)		 granted only on double jeopardy 
grounds.
(B)		 granted only on statute of limitations 
grounds.
(C)		 granted on either double jeopardy 
grounds or statute of limitations grounds. 
(D)		 denied on both grounds. 
179. Defendant is on trial for participating in a 
drug sale. The prosecution calls Witness, an 
undercover officer, to testify that, when Seller 
sold the drugs to Witness, Seller introduced 
Defendant to Witness as “my partner in this” 
and Defendant shook hands with Witness but 
said nothing. 
Witness’s testimony is 
(A)		 inadmissible, because there is no 
evidence that Seller was authorized to 
speak for Defendant. 
(B)		 inadmissible, because the statement 
of Seller is hearsay not within any 
exception.
(C)		 admissible as a statement against 
Defendant’s penal interest. 
(D)		 admissible as Defendant’s adoption of 
Seller’s statement. 
180. State Y has a state employee grievance system 
that requires any state employee who wishes 
to file a grievance against the state to submit 
that grievance for final resolution to a panel of 
three arbitrators chosen by the parties from a 
statewide board of 13 arbitrators. In any given 
case, the grievant and the state alternate in 
exercising the right of each party to eliminate 
five members of the board, leaving a panel 
of three members to decide their case. At 
the present time, the full board is composed 
of seven male arbitrators and six female 
arbitrators. 
Ellen, a female state employee, filed a sexual 
harassment grievance against her male 
supervisor and the state. Anne, the state’s 
attorney, exercised all of her five strikes to 
eliminate five of the female arbitrators. At the 
time she did so, Anne stated that she struck 
the five female arbitrators solely because she 
believed women, as a group, would necessarily 
be biased in favor of another woman who 
was claiming sexual harassment. Counsel for 
Ellen eliminated four males and one female 
arbitrator, all solely on grounds of specific 
bias or conflicts of interest. As a result, the 
panel was all male. 

When the panel ruled against Ellen on the 
merits of her case, she filed an action in an 
appropriate state court, challenging the panel 
selection process as a gender-based denial of 
equal protection of the laws. 
In this case, the court should hold that the 
panel selection process is 
(A)		 unconstitutional, because the gender 
classification used by the state’s 
attorney in this case does not satisfy the 
requirements of intermediate scrutiny. 
(B)		 unconstitutional, because the gender 
classification used by the state’s attorney 
in this case denies the grievant the right 
to a jury made up of her peers. 
(C)		 constitutional, because the gender 
classification used by the state’s attorney 
in this case satisfies the requirements of 
the strict scrutiny test. 
(D)		 constitutional, because the gender 
classification used by the state’s attorney 
in this case satisfies the requirements of 
the rational basis test. 

181. Theresa owned Blueacre, a tract of land, in 
fee simple. Theresa wrote and executed, with 
the required formalities, a will that devised 
Blueacre to “my daughter, Della, for life with 
remainder to my descendants per stirpes.” 
At the time of writing the will, Theresa had a 
husband and no descendants living other than 
her two children, Della and Seth. 
Theresa died and the will was duly admitted 
to probate. Theresa’s husband predeceased 
her. Theresa was survived by Della, Seth, four 
grandchildren, and one great-grandchild. Della 
and Seth were Theresa’s sole heirs at law. 
Della and Seth brought an appropriate 
action for declaratory judgment as to title of 
Blueacre. Guardians ad litem were appointed 
and all other steps were taken so that the 
judgment would bind all persons interested 
whether born or unborn. 
In that action, if the court rules that Della has 
a life estate in the whole of Blueacre and that 
the remainder is contingent, it will be because 
the court chose one of several possible 
constructions and that the chosen construction 
(A)		 related all vesting to the time of writing 
of the will. 
(B)		 related all vesting to the death of 
Theresa. 
(C)		 implied a condition that remaindermen 
survive Della. 
(D)		 implied a gift of a life estate to Seth. 
182. Driver negligently drove his car into 
Pedestrian, breaking her leg. Pedestrian’s 
leg was put in a cast, and she used crutches 
to get about. While shopping at Market, her 
local supermarket, Pedestrian nonnegligently 
placed one of her crutches on a banana peel 
that had been negligently left on the floor by 
the manager of Market’s produce department. 
Pedestrian’s crutch slipped on the peel, and 
she fell to the floor, breaking her arm. Had 
Pedestrian stepped on the banana peel at a 
time when she did not have to use crutches, 
she would have regained her balance. 
Pedestrian sued Driver and Market for her 
injuries. 
Pedestrian will be able to recover from 
(A)		 Driver, for her broken leg only. 
(B)		 Driver, for both of her injuries. 
(C)		 Market, for both of her injuries. 
(D)		 Driver, for her broken leg only, and 
Market, for her broken arm only. 

183. FBI agents, without a warrant and without 
permission of Mexican law enforcement or 
judicial officers, entered Mexico, kidnapped 
Steven, an American citizen wanted in the 
United States for drug smuggling violations, 
and forcibly drove him back to Texas. 
Thereafter, the agents, again without a 
warrant, broke into the Texas home of Joan, 
wanted as a confederate of Steven, and 
arrested her. 
Steven and Joan were both indicted for 
narcotics violations. Both moved to dismiss 
the indictment on the ground that their arrests 
violated the Fourth Amendment. 
The court should 
(A)		 grant the motions of both Steven and 
Joan. 
(B)		 grant the motion of Steven and deny the 
motion of Joan. 
(C)		 grant the motion of Joan and deny the 
motion of Steven. 
(D)		 deny the motions of both Steven and 
Joan. 
184. Gourmet purchased the front portion of the 
land needed for a restaurant he desired to 
build and operate, but the back portion was 
the subject of a will dispute between Hope 
and Faith (two sisters). Hope’s attorney 
advised her that her claim was doubtful. 
Gourmet, knowing only that the unresolved 
dispute existed, agreed in a signed writing to 
pay Hope $6,000, payable $1,000 annually, 
in exchange for a quitclaim deed (a deed 
containing no warranties) from Hope, who 
promptly executed such a deed to Gourmet 
and received Gourmet’s first annual payment. 
Shortly thereafter, the probate court handed 
down a decision in Faith’s favor, ruling that 
Hope had no interest in the land. This decision 
has become final. Gourmet subsequently 
defaulted when his second annual installment 
came due. 
In an action against Gourmet for breach of 
contract, Hope will probably 
(A)		 lose, because she was aware at the time 
of the agreement with Gourmet that her 
claim to the property quitclaimed was 
doubtful. 
(B)		 lose, because Hope suffered no legal 
detriment in executing the quitclaim 
deed. 
(C)		 win, because Gourmet bargained for and 
received in exchange a quitclaim deed 
from Hope. 
(D)		 win, because Gourmet, by paying the 
first $1,000 installment, is estopped to 
deny that his agreement with Hope is an 
enforceable contract. 

185. Athlete, a professional football player, signed 
a written consent for his team’s physician, 
Doctor, to perform a knee operation. After 
Athlete was under a general anesthetic, Doctor 
asked Surgeon, a world famous orthopedic 
surgeon, to perform the operation. Surgeon’s 
skills were superior to Doctor’s, and the 
operation was successful. 
In an action for battery by Athlete against 
Surgeon, Athlete will 
(A)		 prevail, because Athlete did not agree to 
allow Surgeon to perform the operation. 
(B)		 prevail, because the consent form was in 
writing.
(C)		 not prevail, because Surgeon’s skills 
were superior to Doctor’s. 
(D)		 not prevail, because the operation was 
successful. 
186. Senator makes a speech on the floor of the 
United States Senate in which she asserts 
that William, a federal civil servant with 
minor responsibilities, was twice convicted of 
fraud by the courts of State X. In making this 
assertion, Senator relied wholly on research 
done by Frank, her chief legislative assistant. 
In fact, it was a different man named William 
and not William the civil servant, who was 
convicted of these crimes in the state court 
proceedings. This mistake was the result of 
carelessness on Frank’s part. 
No legislation affecting the appointment or 
discipline of civil servants or the program of 
the federal agency for which William works 
was under consideration at the time Senator 
made her speech about William on the floor of 
the Senate. 
William sues Senator and Frank for 
defamation. Both defendants move to dismiss 
the complaint. 
As a matter of constitutional law, the court 
hearing this motion should 
(A)		 grant it as to Frank, because he is 
protected by the freedom of speech 
guarantee against defamation actions 
by government officials based on his 
mere carelessness; but deny it as to 
Senator, because, as an officer of the 
United States, she is a constituent part 
of the government and, therefore, has no 
freedom of speech rights in that capacity. 
(B)		 grant it as to both defendants, because 
Senator is immune to suit for any speech 
she makes in the Senate under the speech 
or debate clause of Article I, Section 
6, and Frank may assert Senator’s 
immunity for his assistance to her in 
preparing the speech. 
(C)		 deny it as to both defendants, because 
any immunity of Senator under the 
speech or debate clause does not attach 
to a speech that is not germane to 
pending legislative business, and Frank 
is entitled to no greater immunity than 
the legislator he was assisting. 
(D)		 deny it as to Frank, because he is not 
a legislator protected by the speech or 
debate clause; but grant it as to Senator, 
because she is immune from suit for her 
speech by virtue of that clause. 

187. Six years ago, Oscar, owner of Blackacre in 
fee simple, executed and delivered to Albert 
an instrument in the proper form of a warranty 
deed, purporting to convey Blackacre to 
“Albert and his heirs.” At that time, Albert 
was a widower who had one child, Donna. 
Three years ago, Albert executed and 
delivered to Bea an instrument in the proper 
form of a warranty deed, purporting to convey 
Blackacre to “Bea.” Donna did not join in 
the deed. Bea was and still is unmarried and 
childless. 
The only possibly applicable statute in the 
jurisdiction states that any deed will be 
construed to convey the grantor’s entire estate, 
unless expressly limited. 
Last month, Albert died, never having 
remarried. Donna is his only heir. 
Blackacre is now owned by 
(A)		 Donna, because Albert’s death ended 
Bea’s life estate pur autre vie. 
(B)		 Bea in fee simple pursuant to Albert’s 
deed. 
(C)		 Donna and Bea as tenants in common of 
equal shares. 
(D)		 Donna and Bea as joint tenants, because 
both survived Albert. 
188. Smart approached Johnson and inquired 
about hiring someone to kill his girlfriend’s 
parents. Unknown to Smart, Johnson was 
an undercover police officer who pretended 
to agree to handle the job and secretly 
taped subsequent conversations with Smart 
concerning plans and payment. A few days 
before the payment was due, Smart changed 
his mind and called the plan off. Nevertheless, 
Smart was charged with solicitation to commit 
murder. 
Smart should be 
(A)		 acquitted, because he withdrew before 
payment and commission of the act. 
(B)		 acquitted, because no substantial acts 
were performed. 
(C)		 convicted, because the offense was 
completed before his attempt to 
withdraw. 
(D)		 convicted, because Johnson agreed to 
commit the offense. 
  

189. Retailer, a dry goods retailer, telephoned 
Manufacturer, a towel manufacturer, and 
offered to buy for $5 each a minimum of 500 
and a maximum of 1,000 large bath towels, 
to be delivered in 30 days. Manufacturer 
orally accepted this offer and promptly sent 
the following letter to Retailer, which Retailer 
received two days later: “This confirms our 
agreement today by telephone to sell you 
500 large bath towels for 30-day delivery. 
/s/ Manufacturer.” Twenty-eight days later, 
Manufacturer tendered to Retailer 1,000 (not 
500) conforming bath towels, all of which 
Retailer rejected because it had found a better 
price term from another supplier. Because of a 
glut in the towel market, Manufacturer cannot 
resell the towels except at a loss. 
In a suit by Manufacturer against Retailer, 
which of the following will be the probable 
decision? 
(A)		 Manufacturer can enforce a contract for 
1,000 towels, because Retailer ordered 
and Manufacturer tendered that quantity. 
(B)		 Manufacturer can enforce a contract 
for 500 towels, because Manufacturer’s 
letter of confirmation stated that quantity 
term. 
(C)		 There is no enforceable agreement, 
because Retailer never signed a writing. 
(D)		 There is no enforceable agreement, 
because Manufacturer’s letter of 
confirmation did not state a price term. 
190. Doctor, a resident of the city of Greenville in 
the state of Green, is a physician licensed to 
practice in both Green and the neighboring 
state of Red. Doctor finds that the most 
convenient place to treat her patients who 
need hospital care is in the publicly owned 
and operated Redville Municipal Hospital 
of the city of Redville in the state of Red, 
which is located just across the state line 
from Greenville. For many years Doctor 
had successfully treated her patients in that 
hospital. Early this year she was notified 
that she could no longer treat patients in 
the Redville hospital because she was not a 
resident of Red, and a newly adopted rule 
of Redville Municipal Hospital, which was 
adopted in conformance with all required 
procedures, stated that every physician who 
practices in that hospital must be a resident of 
Red. 
Which of the following constitutional 
provisions would be most helpful to Doctor in 
an action to challenge her exclusion from the 
Redville hospital solely on the basis of this 
hospital rule? 
(A)		 The bill of attainder clause. 
(B)		 The privileges and immunities clause of 
Article IV. 
(C)		 The due process clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment. 
(D)		 The ex post facto clause. 
191. Martin, the owner in fee simple of 
Orchardacres, mortgaged Orchardacres to 
Marie to secure the payment of the loan she 
made to him. The loan was due at the end of 
the growing season of the year in which it 
was made. Martin maintained and operated 
an orchard on the land, which was his sole 
source of income. Halfway through the 
growing season, Martin experienced severe 
health and personal problems and, as a result, 
left the state; his whereabouts were unknown. 
Marie learned that no one was responsible 
for the cultivation and care of the orchard 
on Orchardacres. She undertook to provide, 
through employees, the care of the orchard and 
the harvest for the remainder of the growing 
season. The net profits were applied to the 
debt secured by the mortgage on Orchardacres. 
During the course of the harvest, Paul, a 
business invitee, was injured by reason of a 
fault in the equipment used. Under applicable 
tort case law, the owner of the premises would 
be liable for Paul’s injuries. Paul brought an 
appropriate action against Marie to recover 
damages for the injuries suffered, relying on 
this aspect of tort law. 
In such lawsuit, judgment should be for 
(A)		 Paul, if, but only if, the state is a 
title theory state, because in other 
jurisdictions a mortgagee has no title 
interest but only a lien. 
(B)		 Paul, because Marie was a mortgagee in 
possession.
(C)		 Marie, because she acted as agent of 
the owner only to preserve her security 
interest. 
(D)		 Marie, if, but only if, the mortgage 
expressly provided for her taking 
possession in the event of danger to her 
security interest. 

192. Actor, a well-known movie star, was drinking 
Vineyard wine at a nightclub. A bottle of the 
Vineyard wine, with its label plainly showing, 
was on the table in front of Actor. An amateur 
photographer asked Actor if he could take his 
picture and Actor said, “Yes.” Subsequently, 
the photographer sold the photo to Vineyard. 
Vineyard, without Actor’s consent, used the 
photo in a wine advertisement in a nationally 
circulated magazine. The caption below the 
photo stated, “Actor enjoys his Vineyard 
wine.” 
If Actor sues Vineyard to recover damages as 
a result of Vineyard’s use of the photograph, 
will Actor prevail? 
(A)		 No, because Actor consented to being 
photographed.
(B)		 No, because Actor is a public figure. 
(C)		 Yes, because Vineyard made commercial 
use of the photograph. 
(D)		 Yes, unless Actor did, in fact, enjoy his 
Vineyard wine. 

193. At Defendant’s trial for sale of drugs, the 
government called Witness to testify, but 
Witness refused to answer any questions 
about Defendant and was held in contempt 
of court. The government then calls Officer 
to testify that, when Witness was arrested for 
possession of drugs and offered leniency if he 
would identify his source, Witness had named 
Defendant as his source. 
The testimony offered concerning Witness’s 
identification of Defendant is 
(A)		 admissible as a prior inconsistent 
statement by Witness. 
(B)		 admissible as an identification of 
Defendant by Witness after having 
perceived him. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because Witness was not 
confronted with the statement while on 
the stand. 
194. Buyer mailed a signed order to Seller that 
read: “Please ship us 10,000 widgets at your 
current price.” Seller received the order on 
January 7 and that same day mailed to Buyer a 
properly stamped, addressed, and signed letter 
stating that the order was accepted at Seller’s 
current price of $10 per widget. On January 
8, before receipt of Seller’s letter, Buyer 
telephoned Seller and said, “I hereby revoke 
my order.” Seller protested to no avail. Buyer 
received Seller’s letter on January 9. Because 
of Buyer’s January 8 telephone message, 
Seller never shipped the goods. 
Under the relevant and prevailing rules, is 
there a contract between Buyer and Seller as 
of January 10? 
(A)		 No, because the order was an offer that 
could be accepted only by shipping the 
goods; and the offer was effectively 
revoked before shipment. 
(B)		 No, because Buyer never effectively 
agreed to the $10 price term. 
(C)		 Yes, because the order was, for a 
reasonable time, an irrevocable offer. 
(D)		 Yes, because the order was an offer that 
seller effectively accepted before Buyer 
attempted to revoke it. 

195. As Seller, an encyclopedia salesman, 
approached the grounds on which Hermit’s 
house was situated, he saw a sign that said, 
“No salesmen. Trespassers will be prosecuted. 
Proceed at your own risk.” Although Seller 
had not been invited to enter, he ignored the 
sign and drove up the driveway toward the 
house. As he rounded a curve, a powerful 
explosive charge buried in the driveway 
exploded, and Seller was injured. 
Can Seller recover damages from Hermit for 
his injuries? 
(A)		 Yes, if Hermit was responsible for the 
explosive charge under the driveway. 
(B)		 Yes, unless Hermit, when he planted the 
charge, intended only to deter, not to 
harm, a possible intruder. 
(C)		 No, because Seller ignored the sign, 
which warned him against proceeding 
further. 
(D)		 No, if Hermit reasonably feared that 
intruders would come and harm him or 
his family. 
196. Adam owned Blackacre. Adam entered into 
a written three-year lease of Blackacre with 
Bertha. Among other provisions, the lease 
prohibited Bertha from “assigning this lease, 
in whole or in part, and from subletting 
Blackacre, in whole or in part.” In addition 
to a house, a barn, and a one-car garage, 
Blackacre’s 30 acres included several fields 
where first Adam, and now Bertha, grazed 
sheep. 
During the following months, Bertha: 
I.		 By a written agreement allowed her 
neighbor Charles exclusive use of the 
garage for storage, under lock and key, 
of his antique Packard automobile for 
two years, charging him $240. 
II.		 Told her neighbor Doris that Doris could 
use the fields to practice her golf as long 
as she did not disturb Bertha’s sheep. 
Which, if any, of Bertha’s actions constituted 
a violation of the lease? 
(A)		 I only. 
(B)		 II only. 
(C)		 Both I and II. 
(D)		 Neither I nor II. 

197. Defendant is charged with murder. The 
evidence shows that she pointed a gun at 
Victim and pulled the trigger. The gun 
discharged, killing Victim. The gun belonged 
to Victim. 
Defendant testifies that Victim told her, and 
she believed, that the “gun” was a stage prop 
that could fire only blanks, and that she fired 
the gun as part of rehearsing a play with 
Victim at his house. 
If the jury believes Defendant’s testimony and 
finds that her mistaken belief that the gun was 
a prop was reasonable, they should find her 
(A)		 guilty of murder. 
(B)		 guilty of manslaughter. 
(C)		 guilty of either murder or manslaughter. 
(D)		 not guilty of murder or manslaughter. 
198. Del’s sporting goods shop was burglarized by 
an escaped inmate from a nearby prison. The 
inmate stole a rifle and bullets from a locked 
cabinet. The burglar alarm at Del’s shop 
did not go off because Del had negligently 
forgotten to activate the alarm’s motion 
detector. 
Shortly thereafter, the inmate used the rifle 
and ammunition stolen from Del in a shooting 
spree that caused injury to several people, 
including Paula. 
If Paula sues Del for the injury she suffered, 
will Paula prevail? 
(A)		 Yes, if Paula’s injury would have been 
prevented had the motion detector been 
activated. 
(B)		 Yes, because Del was negligent in failing 
to activate the motion detector. 
(C)		 No, because the storage and sale of 
firearms and ammunition is not an 
abnormally dangerous activity. 
(D)		 No, unless there is evidence of 
circumstances suggesting a high risk 
of theft and criminal use of firearms 
stocked by Del. 

199. A statute of the state of Texona prohibits 
any retailer of books, magazines, pictures, or 
posters from “publicly displaying or selling to 
any person any material that may be harmful 
to minors because of the violent or sexually 
explicit nature of its pictorial content.” 
Violation of this statute is a misdemeanor. 
Corner Store displays publicly and sells 
magazines containing violent and sexually 
explicit pictures. The owner of this store is 
prosecuted under the above statute for these 
actions. 
In defending against this prosecution in a 
Texona trial court, the argument that would 
be the best defense for Corner Store is that the 
statute violates the 
(A)		 First Amendment as it is incorporated 
into the Fourteenth Amendment, because 
the statute is excessively vague and 
overbroad. 
(B)		 First Amendment as it is incorporated 
into the Fourteenth Amendment, because 
a state may not prohibit the sale of 
violent or sexually explicit material in 
the absence of proof that the material is 
utterly without any redeeming value in 
the marketplace of ideas. 
(C)		 equal protection of the laws clause, 
because the statute irrationally treats 
violent and sexually explicit material that 
is pictorial differently from such material 
that is composed wholly of printed 
words. 
(D)		 equal protection of the laws clause, 
because the statute irrationally 
distinguishes between violent and 
sexually explicit pictorial material that 
may harm minors and such material that 
may harm only adults. 
200. In an arson prosecution the government seeks 
to rebut Defendant’s alibi that he was in a jail 
in another state at the time of the fire. The 
government calls Witness to testify that he 
diligently searched through all the records of 
the jail and found no record of Defendant’s 
having been incarcerated there during the time 
Defendant specified. 
The testimony of Witness is 
(A)		 admissible as evidence of absence of an 
entry from a public record. 
(B)		 admissible as a summary of voluminous 
documents. 
(C)		 inadmissible, because it is hearsay not 
within any exception. 
(D)		 inadmissible, because the records 
themselves must be produced. 




